[[page 1]]
Article Not peer-reviewed version
BPMN-Based Design of Multi-Agent
Systems: Personalized Language
Learning Workflow Automation with
RAG-Enhanced Knowledge Access
Hedi Tebourbi , Sana Nouzri * , Yazan Mualla * , Meryem EL Fatimi , Amro Najjar , Abdeljalil Abbas-Turki ,
Mahjoub Dridi
Posted Date: 16 July 2025
doi: 10.20944/preprints202507.1291.v1
Keywords: MAS; language learning; BPMN; RAG; low-resource languages; Luxembourgish; speech
recognition; educational pedagogy
Preprints.org is a free multidisciplinary platform providing preprint service
that is dedicated to making early versions of research outputs permanently
available and citable. Preprints posted at Preprints.org appear in Web of
Science, Crossref, Google Scholar, Scilit, Europe PMC.
Copyright: This open access article is published under a Creative Commons CC BY 4.0
license, which permit the free download, distribution, and reuse, provided that the author
and preprint are cited in any reuse.

[[page 2]]
Article
BPMN-Based Design of Multi-Agent Systems:
Personalized Language Learning Workflow
Automation with RAG-Enhanced Knowledge Access
Hedi Tebourbi 1
 , Sana Nouzri 1
 , Yazan Mualla 2,*
 , Meryem EL Fatimi 3
 , Amro Najjar 4
 ,
Abdeljalil Abbas-T urki2
 and Mahjoub Dridi 2
1 University of Luxembourg, 4365 Esch-sur-Alzette, Luxembourg
2 Université de Technologie de Belfort-Montbéliard, UTBM, CIAD UR 7533, F-90010 Belfort, France
3 Cadi Ayyad university, Bd Abdelkrim Al Khattabi, Marrakech 40000, Maroco
4 Luxembourg Institute of Science and Technology, 4362, Esch-sur-Alzette, Luxembourg
* Correspondence: yazan.mualla@utbm.fr
Abstract
The intersection of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and education is revolutionizing learning and teaching
in this digital era, with Generative AI and large language models (LLMs) heralding even greater
possibilities for the future. This paper presents a novel approach to design a personalized language
learning by combining Business Process Model and Notation (BPMN) with Multi-Agent System (MAS)
architectures and Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) knowledge bases. Addressing the specific
challenges of teaching Luxembourgish, a low-resource language, we design a modular system where
BPMN diagrams play a central role in designing and orchestrating the workflows of intelligent agents.
Each agent is responsible for a specific learning activity, such as reading, listening, grammar, or
conversation, and is equipped with access to a dynamically retrieved, context-rich knowledge base
powered by RAG. To ensure realism in learner interaction, we integrate speech-to-text and text-to-
speech technologies, creating an immersive, human-like learning environment. The system simulates
intelligent tutoring through agents’ collaboration and dynamic adaptation to learner progress. We
demonstrate our method through a Luxembourgish learning platform that integrates GPT-based agents
and educational content from textbooks of the National Institute of Languages of Luxembourg. Our
Results demonstrate that BPMN functions not merely as a modeling tool but as a pivotal framework for
designing intelligent and adaptive agent workflows in language learning systems. By structuring the
sequence, logic, and interdependencies of diverse learning activities, BPMN enables the development
of coordinated, goal-oriented agent behaviors. This systematic design approach ensures that each
agent, whether dedicated to reading, listening, grammar, or conversation, operates within a coherent
and pedagogically aligned flow, thereby supporting greater personalization, learner engagement, and
instructional effectiveness.
Keywords: MAS; language learning; BPMN; RAG; low-resource languages; Luxembourgish; speech
recognition; educational pedagogy
1. Introduction
Recent advances in conversational Artificial Intelligence (AI), particularly through systems like
ChatGPT, have demonstrated the potential for AI-driven language learning [ 2]. However, current
AI-driven language learning applications face significant limitations: they often rely on single-agent
architectures that struggle to manage the complexity of comprehensive language education, and they
frequently produce content errors or “hallucination” that undermine pedagogical effectiveness [4,5].
These challenges are particularly acute for low-resource languages like Luxembourgish, where
training data scarcity exacerbates model limitations. With Luxembourgish being the main language
Preprints.org (www.preprints.org) | NOT PEER-REVIEWED | Posted: 16 July 2025 doi:10.20944/preprints202507.1291.v1
Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions, and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual author(s) and
contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to people or property resulting
from any ideas, methods, instructions, or products referred to in the content.
© 2025 by the author(s). Distributed under a Creative Commons CC BY license.

[[page 3]]
2 of 30
of only 48.9% of Luxembourg’s population as of 2021, down from 55.8% in 2011, and spoken by
approximately 275,000 people as their primary language [ 14], traditional large language models
(LLMs) often fail to generate accurate, contextually appropriate educational material [17,22,25].
Furthermore, current language learning applications utilizing LLMs predominantly focus on
vocabulary acquisition through role-playing conversations and providing immediate feedback derived
from model-generated content [ 1]. This method, however, can result in exposure to inaccuracies
or model “hallucinations”, and fails to address the comprehensive nature of the language learning
process, which extends beyond conversational practice to include reading comprehension, listening
skills, and grammatical competency [3]. Effective language acquisition necessitates robust pedagogy,
efficient teaching methodologies, reliable content, and a supportive teacher-student dynamic [6]. While
MAS have shown promise in educational contexts through distributed task management [10], their
application to language learning for low-resource languages remains underexplored.
Based on our previous works [ 24,48]1, this article addresses these challenges through a novel
integration of three key technologies: Business Process Model and Notation (BPMN) for workflow
transparency and specification [ 9], MAS for distributed task execution, and Retrieval-Augmented
Generation (RAG) for auditable knowledge access and enhanced content accuracy [21]. By modeling
language learning as a structured business process, where BPMN diagrams explicitly define pedagogi-
cal workflows that are then executed by specialized agents, each focusing on specific learning aspects
(conversation, reading, listening, grammar), we ensure a comprehensive learning experience that ad-
dresses the holistic nature of language acquisition. By grounding agent responses in a RAG-enhanced
knowledge base built from validated educational materials from the National Institute of Languages of
Luxembourg (INL), we significantly reduce content errors while maintaining pedagogical coherence.
Explainable Artificial Intelligence (XAI) is a field that aims to provide techniques, models, and
methods for developing XAI-based systems [32–35]. These systems enable users and other human
actors to better understand AI’s decision-making, which, in turn, can improve factors such as trust and
transparency [36–38], particularly in data-driven AI [39–41].
Our approach extends beyond traditional Intelligent Tutoring Systems (ITS) [7] by implementing
dynamic agent collaboration rather than rule-based responses, enabling more adaptive and person-
alized learning experiences while prioritizing explainability through BPMN’s transparent workflow
modeling. By formalizing agent interactions and decision logic in BPMN diagrams, we provide edu-
cators and learners with auditable, human-interpretable insights into AI-driven pedagogical choices
(e.g., activity sequencing, error correction pathways). This explainability addresses the “black-box”
limitations of conventional LLMs, aligning with XAI principles of trust and accountability in edu-
cational AI. The integration of Speech To Text (STT) and Text To Speech (TTS) technologies further
enhances the immersive learning environment, addressing the conversational practice needs critical
for language proficiency development. Furthermore, the opaque decision-making of LLMs hinders
pedagogical trust. Our framework inherently addresses this by: (i) decomposing complex workflows
into auditable agent tasks, (ii) grounding responses in traceable knowledge sources, and (iii) enabling
human-in-the-loop validation of XAI for educational systems. The main contributions of this paper
are:
• A novel BPMN-to-MAS transformation methodology that converts pedagogical workflows into
executable MAS, bridging formal process modeling with AI-driven education.
• Integration of RAG technology to ensure accurate, contextually grounded language instruction
while mitigating LLM hallucinations.
• Implementation of a complete Luxembourgish learning platform (A1—B2) with React/ FastAPI
frontend, LangGraph core, ChromaDB vector store, and STT/TTS pipelines.
1 This article is a revised and expanded version of these papers.
Preprints.org (www.preprints.org) | NOT PEER-REVIEWED | Posted: 16 July 2025 doi:10.20944/preprints202507.1291.v1
© 2025 by the author(s). Distributed under a Creative Commons CC BY license.

[[page 4]]
3 of 30
• Empirical evaluation showing strong response accuracy (RAGAs: Context Relevancy = 0.87,
Faithfulness = 0.82, Answer Relevancy = 0.85) and high learner satisfaction in a pilot (85.8%
ease-of-use, 71.4% engagement).
• A generalizable framework for low-resource language education that combines formal process
modeling, distributed AI agents, and knowledge-grounded generation.
2. Related Work
2.1. BPMN for Educational Process Modeling
BPMN has been widely adopted to formalize and communicate complex workflows in education.
García-López et al. [16] demonstrated how BPMN diagrams capture pedagogical sequences—such as
lesson plans and assessment flows—improving collaboration between instructors and system designers.
Similarly, Costa and Silva [11] applied BPMN to model adaptive e-learning paths, enabling conditional
branching based on learner performance while improving course reusability and personalization.
Nevertheless, these efforts typically stop at static documentation and do not produce executable,
adaptive process definitions that integrate with AI agents at run time.
2.2. Multi-Agent Systems in Education
Intelligent tutoring systems have long leveraged MAS to distribute educational tasks among
specialized agents. Wooldridge and Jennings’s foundational survey [28] laid out the theory of agent
collaboration, and Ivanova et al. [12] later proposed an agent-oriented architecture for strategy-based
e-learning with distinct agents handling content delivery, assessment, and learner tracking. More
recent LLM-based MAS frameworks—such as AutoGen [23] and LangGraph [19]—provide generic
scaffolding for multi-agent orchestration but have not been tailored to formal pedagogical workflows
or low-resource language settings.
2.3. Retrieval-Augmented Generation
RAG combines neural generation with external retrieval to ground outputs in factual documents.
Lewis et al. [21] first showed that RAG significantly reduces hallucinations in knowledge-intensive NLP
tasks. In education, Wang et al. [27] applied RAG to AI tutoring systems and reported a 40% reduction
in factual errors and a 25% increase in answer relevance. However, existing RAG-based solutions
do not incorporate formal process models or MAS, leaving a gap in end-to-end, workflow-driven
educational AI.
2.4. LLM-Powered Language Learning Chatbots
Generative AI chatbots like ChatGPT have become popular for language practice. Belda-Medina
and Calvo-Ferrer [2] showed that LLM conversational partners can boost vocabulary retention. Cavo-
jský [1] integrated GPT-3 in classroom settings, yielding fluency gains, but also observed persistent
hallucinations. Huang et al. [ 5] provide a taxonomy of these hallucinations, and Rzepka et al. [ 26]
analyzed their impact on learner trust. Commercial platforms (e.g. Duolingo Max [15]) now harness
GPT-4, yet still emphasize gamified vocabulary gains over a comprehensive, skills-based curriculum.
2.5. Technologies for Low-Resource Languages
Low-resource languages like Luxembourgish face acute data scarcity. Lavergne et al. [20] surveyed
existing Luxembourgish NLP tools and found major gaps in corpora and models. Multilingual
transformers (XLM-R [ 29], mBERT [ 30]) afford zero-shot capabilities but often underperform in
specialized domains. For speech, Whisper-based STT fine-tuned on RTL.lu achieves WERs of 18—28%
[31], yet has seen little application in structured educational systems.
2.6. Research Gap
While prior work has independently explored: BPMN for high-level educational design [ 16],
MAS for distributed tutoring [12,28], RAG for grounding LLM outputs [21,27], LLM-based chatbots
Preprints.org (www.preprints.org) | NOT PEER-REVIEWED | Posted: 16 July 2025 doi:10.20944/preprints202507.1291.v1
© 2025 by the author(s). Distributed under a Creative Commons CC BY license.

[[page 5]]
4 of 30
for language practice [1,2], and low-resource language models [20,31], no existing system brings all of
these together into a cohesive, executable framework that:
1. Uses BPMN to specify pedagogical workflows,
2. Orchestrates specialized LLM-powered agents via MAS,
3. Grounds all content in vetted external knowledge with RAG,
4. Incorporates real-time voice interaction (STT/TTS) for a low-resource language.
Our work bridges this gap for Luxembourgish by compiling BPMN into an LLM-agent graph, integrat-
ing RAG-enhanced vector retrieval, and embedding STT/TTS pipelines into the MAS—delivering a
structured, adaptive, and pedagogically coherent learning experience.
3. System Design and Architecture
Our system design is built around the integration of three core components that collectively
enable a modular, intelligent, and process-driven learning environment:
• BPMN is used to define and structure the high-level learning workflow. Each BPMN task
represents a discrete educational activity (e.g., “Grammar Practice”), providing a visual and
organized representation of the learning journey.
• MAS executes the modeled processes. Each agent within the MAS is domain-specific, with
specialized roles such as Conversational Agent, Grammar Agent, Reading Agent, and Listening
Agent. These agents work autonomously yet collaboratively, each handling a distinct aspect of
the learning experience.
• RAG equips each agent with access to relevant educational content. This is achieved through
vector stores constructed from INL textbooks and OCR-processed materials, allowing agents to
retrieve and generate accurate, knowledge grounding responses.
The architecture, as shown in Figure 1 (MAS Architecture part), draws inspiration from the
structural design of language learning books proposed by INL, which categorize activities into well-
defined types: SchwÄtzt!: Speak up!, Lauschtert!: Listen!, Liest!: Read!, Kombinéiert!: Combined!,
Notéiert!/Schreift!: Note!/Write!, KrÄizt un!: Cross on!, and ënnerstrÄichen!: Underline! Each type
represents a focused mode of interaction, and this pedagogical segmentation has influenced our
system’s modularity.
Instead of relying on a single, monolithic language model to handle all educational tasks, our
architecture embraces a multi-agent LLM approach. This decentralized design mirrors the textbook
structure, assigning specific learning tasks to dedicated agents, thus allowing each LLM-based agent to
focus on a single modality or skill. This results in more targeted, efficient, and context-aware instruction.
By distributing responsibilities among specialized agents, the system enables cooperative problem-
solving and interactive learning, fostering a more dynamic and adaptable educational experience.
Preprints.org (www.preprints.org) | NOT PEER-REVIEWED | Posted: 16 July 2025 doi:10.20944/preprints202507.1291.v1
© 2025 by the author(s). Distributed under a Creative Commons CC BY license.

[[page 6]]
5 of 30
Figure 1. Collaborative Learning via Agent Communication and RAG-Based MAS for Language Learning
3.1. Core Agent Roles and Responsibilities
1. Communicator Agent: Serves as the primary interface between the system and the user. Its
responsibilities include:
• Interacting with users in natural language.
• Recommending learning activities based on the user’s preferences, progress, and perfor-
mance.
• Personalizing the learning path according to user goals and pacing.
2. Orchestrator Agent: Functions as the system’s manager, responsible for:
• Managing the overall workflow of the learning session.
• Retrieving and sequencing appropriate content for each session.
• Coordinating the actions of the specialized tutor agents to ensure cohesive learning progres-
sion.
3. Tracker Agent: Monitors and ensures the correct execution of the learning workflow. Its tasks
include:
• Signaling the activation of Tutor Agents at the appropriate stages.
• Waiting for each agent to complete its task before initiating the next.
• Maintaining the flow and timing of the session until completion.
4. Specialized T utor Agents:At the heart of the platform are the Tutors Agents, each designed
to focus on a specific aspect of language learning. These agents reflect the structure found in
Luxembourgish textbooks, where different learning activities are categorized to target distinct
language skills:
• Conversational Agent: Focuses on spoken language skills through interactive conversation.
Activities include Role-playing scenarios, Vocabulary-focused dialogues, and Real-time
feedback for pronunciation and fluency.
• Reading Agent: Enhances comprehension and vocabulary acquisition through reading
tasks, assists with reading accuracy and understanding, and encourages summarization and
contextual vocabulary usage.
Preprints.org (www.preprints.org) | NOT PEER-REVIEWED | Posted: 16 July 2025 doi:10.20944/preprints202507.1291.v1
© 2025 by the author(s). Distributed under a Creative Commons CC BY license.

[[page 7]]
6 of 30
• Listening Agent: Builds listening comprehension through repetition and follow-up exer-
cises, listening-based actions, and feedback to improve recognition and application of new
vocabulary.
• QA (Question & Answer) Agent: Provides interactive tasks and exercises based on book-
inspired formats such as Kombinéiert!, Notéiert!/Schreift!. It presents quiz-style questions,
evaluates responses and delivers detailed explanations, and offers corrective and motiva-
tional feedback.
• GrammarSummary Agent:
Specializes in grammatical instruction by delivering concise and targeted grammar rules,
supporting correct grammatical usage in user outputs.
5. Human T utorA teacher will be involved to ensure the linguistic accuracy and coherence of
the learning materials. This includes verifying the alignment between text content, audio tran-
scriptions, and visual illustrations. The teacher also validates the relevance and pedagogical
sequencing of the content retrieved by the Orchestrator, ensuring it is appropriate for the user’s
proficiency level and learning objectives.
3.1.1. Knowledge Provenance
Every RAG-augmented response in our system is transparently linked back to its original textbook
source via the metadata produced by the Organizer agent (see Figure 2). Prior to storage in the vector
database, each chunk is annotated with the following fields, extracted verbatim from the INL A1—B2
materials and cross-checked against the scanned PDF pages, to ensure exact provenance: Thema,
Kategorie, Agent, and Inhalt (content).
When an agent generates a response, it appends these metadata attributes (e.g. “Thema: Wéi
heescht Dir?”, “Kategorie: Dialogs and name spelling exercises”) alongside the answer. This mecha-
nism guarantees that learners—and auditors—can always trace each generated utterance back to the
precise location within the original INL textbook.
Figure 2. Organizer Agent output: textbook chunks annotated with pedagogical metadata and source references.
3.1.2. Human Auditing
Validators (teachers) review:
• The raw BPMN-defined sequence of activities,
• LangSmith logs of each agent’s decision context,
• The alignment between chunk metadata and delivered exercises.
This ensures pedagogical sequencing remains faithful to expert intent.
Preprints.org (www.preprints.org) | NOT PEER-REVIEWED | Posted: 16 July 2025 doi:10.20944/preprints202507.1291.v1
© 2025 by the author(s). Distributed under a Creative Commons CC BY license.

[[page 8]]
7 of 30
3.1.3. Workflow Transparency
BPMN diagrams (Figure 4 and Figs. A1-A4 in Appendix A) explicitly document every decision
point, for example:
IF pronunciation_error_count > 2 −→ Re-prompt
This makes the branching logic visible to both developers and instructors.
3.2. Explainability Mechanisms
We embed an interactive explainability layer into our multi-agent workflow, ensuring trans-
parency in what would otherwise be a “black-box” system. By integrating LangSmith [42], educators
gain detailed insights into the rationale behind each adaptive decision made by the LangGraph engine,
creating clear audit trails from learner data to agent actions.
3.2.1. LangSmith Role
LangSmith is an interactive observability and debugging platform provided by LangChain Inc.
[42]. It captures, stores, and visualizes every prompt, tool call, router decision, and state change across
a LangGraph-driven workflow. Through its web-based dashboard, educators and developers can:
• Explore complete prompt histories for each agent node,
• Inspect intermediate state variables and message payloads,
• Visualize conditional routing paths and loop iterations,
• Search and filter on specific student interactions or decision predicates.
By integrating LangSmith, our system turns opaque agent behavior into an auditable, human-readable
trace, facilitating both technical debugging and pedagogical review.
Figure 3. LangSmith trace of decision steps for a sample learner session.
Preprints.org (www.preprints.org) | NOT PEER-REVIEWED | Posted: 16 July 2025 doi:10.20944/preprints202507.1291.v1
© 2025 by the author(s). Distributed under a Creative Commons CC BY license.

[[page 9]]
8 of 30
4. BPMN to MAS Transformation
4.1. BPMN Modeling of Learning Workflows
To capture how our agents communicate, cooperate, and supervise one another, we represent
their interaction flow with a BPMN diagram (see Figure 4). By modeling our MAS in BPMN, we make
the system’s logic explicit, easily understandable to both technical and non-technical stakeholders, and
readily analyzable for correctness and optimization.
Figure 4. BPMN diagram for the agent interaction
4.1.1. Top-Level Orchestration Diagram (Figure 4)
Table 1. Pools and Lanes in the Top-Level BPMN Orchestration
Pool / Lane Role / Responsibility
User Human learner interacting via the UI.
Communicator Agent Retrieves profile data; proposes personalized learning paths;
emits RAG queries.
Orchestrator Agent Fetches and validates content; plans which tutor agents to
invoke and in what order.
Tracker Agent Drives step-by-step activation of tutor agents; logs
completion or early-exit signals.
Tutor Agents Swimlane for specialized tutors (Conversation, Reading,
Listening, QA, GrammarSummary).
Pools and lanes correspond to the BPMN swimlanes shown in Figure 4.
1. Start Event (Message) The User logs in, triggering a message start event in the Communicator
lane.
2. User Data Retrieval (Service Tasks) In the Communicator lane, three service tasks are retrieved:
• UserProfile — personal details and learning objectives.
• LatestProgressFile — feedback from the previous session.
• CurriculumOutline — textbook TOC matching the user’s proficiency.
3. Personalized Path Generation A service task builds aLearningPathRecommendation. A message
flow delivers it to the User, and an exclusive gateway (“Accept?”) loops back for refinement until
approval.
Preprints.org (www.preprints.org) | NOT PEER-REVIEWED | Posted: 16 July 2025 doi:10.20944/preprints202507.1291.v1
© 2025 by the author(s). Distributed under a Creative Commons CC BY license.

[[page 10]]
9 of 30
4. Query Generation & Dispatch Once approved, the Communicator constructs a RAGQuery (in-
cluding topic IDs and proficiency level) and sends it as a message to the Orchestrator.
5. Content Retrieval & Validation The Orchestrator executes a VectorStoreLookup against Chro-
maDB, then sends the retrieved material to the Human Teacher for validation (message task) and
awaits approval.
6. Workflow Planning A parallel gateway splits into two branches:
• Assign each content chunk to its appropriate Tutor Agent.
• Build the SequenceReport specifying agent invocation order.
Both branches join before proceeding.
7. Report Emission Two message tasks sent:
• ContentReport→ Tracker (mapping agents to content).
• SequenceReport→ Tracker (ordered list of agents).
8. T utor Invocation LoopIn the Tracker lane:
a. DetermineNextAgent via SequenceReport.
b. Send StartSession message to that Tutor Agent.
c. Wait (intermediate catch event) for EndSession or EarlyExit.
d. Log progress (partial or complete).
Repeat until no agents remain.
9. End Event Once all sessions finish, the Tracker emits an end event. The UI displays the updated
progress dashboard and may loop back to the Communicator for a new cycle.
4.1.2. Activity Diagrams for Tutor Agents
Each tutor agent follows a similar BPMN structure of message start, instructional tasks, decision
gateways, and message end. We illustrate, as shown in (Figure 5) the Conversation Agent; the Reading,
Listening, QA, and GrammarSummary Agents adapt this template with domain-specific tasks.
Example: Conversation Agent (Figure 5)
1. Message Start: Catch StartSession from Tracker.
2. Fetch Content: Load dialogue script and role definitions from ContentReport.
3. Introduction: Outline session goals (e.g. focus on past-tense).
4. Role-Play Loop:
• Prompt user with their first line.
• Send spoken reply to STT; receive transcription.
• Gateway G1 (Correct?):
– If correct, advance to next line.
– If incorrect, provide corrective feedback and loop back.
• Repeat until all turns complete.
5. Wrap-Up: Summarize key vocabulary and structures; write progress fragment.
6. Message End: Send EndSession + progress payload back to Tracker.
Table 2. Gateway Conditions in the Conversation Agent BPMN Diagram
Gateway ID Condition & Action
G1 (Correct?) IF pronunciation_error_count == 0 → advance to next dialogue
turn; ELSE→ invoke corrective feedback task and loop back.
G2 (All Turns Completed?) IF turns_completed == total_turns→ proceed to Wrap-Up; ELSE→
return to Role-Play Loop.
Defines the branching logic at each decision point in Figure 5.
Preprints.org (www.preprints.org) | NOT PEER-REVIEWED | Posted: 16 July 2025 doi:10.20944/preprints202507.1291.v1
© 2025 by the author(s). Distributed under a Creative Commons CC BY license.

[[page 11]]
10 of 30
Overview of Other T utor Agents
To avoid redundancy, we summarize each agent’s core workflow alongside its key gateway
conditions:
• Reading Agent (Fig. A1): Presents text to read, checks pronunciation via STT, requests a spoken
or written summary, evaluates comprehension, teaches new vocabulary, and loops until mastery.
Gateway R1: IF summary_correct?→ continue; ELSE→ replay text + re-question.
Gateway R2: IF comprehension_score > threshold → next activity; ELSE→ vocabulary drill.
• Listening Agent (Fig. A2): Plays audio clips, prompts learner reproduction, transcribes and
evaluates responses, offers vocabulary tips, and loops for reinforcement.
Gateway L1: IF transcription_accuracy > 80% → next clip; ELSE→ replay clip.
Gateway L2: IF vocab_usage_correct?→ continue; ELSE→ provide targeted vocabulary drill.
• QA Agent (Fig. A3): Displays exercises (fill-in, MCQ), evaluates answers, provides hints on
incorrect responses, and summarizes learning goals.
Gateway Q1: IF answer == key → correct flow; ELSE→ hint task + retry.
Gateway Q2: IF retry_count > 2 → escalate to GrammarSummary Agent; ELSE → loop for
another attempt.
• GrammarSummary Agent (Fig. A4): Reviews previous grammar, elicits user questions, explains
rules, engages in practice sentences, identifies errors, and closes with a concise rule summary.
Gateway Gs1: IF user_asks_question→ answer question; ELSE→ present practice sentence.
Gateway Gs2: IF error_count > 3 → trigger additional examples; ELSE→ proceed to summary.
By pairing each BPMN activity diagram with a compact gateway-condition table, we provide a
crystal-clear mapping from each decision node (“diamond”) to its exact runtime logic. This ensures
readers can both visualize the flow and understand the precise branching criteria that drive adaptive
learning.
Preprints.org (www.preprints.org) | NOT PEER-REVIEWED | Posted: 16 July 2025 doi:10.20944/preprints202507.1291.v1
© 2025 by the author(s). Distributed under a Creative Commons CC BY license.

[[page 12]]
11 of 30
Figure 5. BPMN diagram for the Conversational Tutor Agent. Gateway annotations show decision logic (e.g., G3:
‘>2 errors→ review’) for explainability.
4.2. Mapping BPMN to MAS
We translate each BPMN element into a corresponding construct in our LangGraph-based MAS.
Table 3 summarizes the mapping from BPMN notation to LangGraph concepts and MAS components.
Preprints.org (www.preprints.org) | NOT PEER-REVIEWED | Posted: 16 July 2025 doi:10.20944/preprints202507.1291.v1
© 2025 by the author(s). Distributed under a Creative Commons CC BY license.

[[page 13]]
12 of 30
Table 3. Mapping BPMN Elements to LangGraph Concepts and MAS Components
BPMN Element LangGraph Concept MAS Component Function
Pool Agent Node Agent Class
Encapsulates a
high-level role (e.g.,
Communicator,
Orchestrator)
Lane Tool Node Agent Capability
Provides an external
service or helper (e.g.,
getFiles)
Task Task Node Method Invocation
Executes a concrete
operation (e.g.,
generateRecommendation)
Gateway Router Routing Logic
Evaluates conditions
and selects outgoing
edge
Data Object State Variable Memory Store
Holds persistent data
(user profile, progress,
curriculum)
Message Flow Message Edge Inter-Agent Message
Transmits data or
control between
agents
Each BPMN element is compiled into a LangGraph node or edge, enabling executable MAS.
Agent and Tool Nodes
In the generated LangGraph, each Pool becomes an Agent Node with its class definition and per-
sonality. Each Lane is realized as one or more Tool Nodes attached to the agent, encapsulating external
operations (database lookups, API calls, OCR, etc.). For example, the Communicator agent uses a
getFiles tool node to fetch UserProfile, LatestProgressFile, and CurriculumOutline efficiently.
Routers and Conditional Edges
Gateways in BPMN become Router Nodes in LangGraph that inspect the agent’s current state
or message payload and dispatch control along the correct outgoing edge. Conditional edges carry
predicates (e.g., “user accepted recommendation?”) that determine which path the workflow follows
at runtime.
Message Passing
Message Flows map directly to Message Edges connecting agent nodes. These edges carry struc-
tured payloads, such as the RAGQuery, ContentReport, and SequenceReport, ensuring that each agent
receives exactly the information it needs to proceed.
Example: Communicator Routing
Figure 6 shows the Communicator’s internal routing logic. After generating a recommendation,
the Communicator’s router can:
• Loop back to itself ( Continue) if the learner requests adjustments.
• Invoke its communicator_call_tool node (Call tool) to re-fetch profile data.
• Transition to the Orchestrator node ( Go orchestrator) once the recommendation is approved.
Preprints.org (www.preprints.org) | NOT PEER-REVIEWED | Posted: 16 July 2025 doi:10.20944/preprints202507.1291.v1
© 2025 by the author(s). Distributed under a Creative Commons CC BY license.

[[page 14]]
13 of 30
Figure 6. Example of Communicator node routing in LangGraph.
Handling Multiple User Inputs
Unlike simple linear workflows, our language-learning process requires repeated user interactions
at various stages. We handle this by embedding input-expectation logic within routers: when a router
determines “await user input,” it triggers a call to the front end, pauses on an intermediate catch event,
and resumes execution once the UI returns the learner’s response. This pattern supports multi-step
dialogues and ensures smooth, stateful conversations across the entire session.
By compiling BPMN pools, lanes, tasks, gateways, and message flows into LangGraph’s nodes,
tool nodes, routers, and edges, we obtain an executable, stateful graph representation of our pedagogi-
cal workflow, bridging formal process modeling with a robust multi-agent implementation.
4.3. Multi-Agent Architecture
Our MAS architecture consists of specialized agents:
• Communicator Agent: First interface with users, providing personalized recommendations based
on learner profiles and progress
• Orchestrator Agent: Manages workflow, retrieves relevant content, and coordinates agent activa-
tion
• Tracker Agent: Monitors workflow execution and learner progress
• T utor Agents: Specialized agents for different learning aspects:
– Conversational Agent : Facilitates speaking practice
– Reading Agent : Guides reading comprehension
– Listening Agent : Manages listening exercises
– QA Agent : Handles interactive questions
– Grammar Summary Agent : Provides grammatical explanations
• Human Validator: Reviews and approves generated content
4.4. LangGraph Implementation and Prompt Orchestration
To execute our BPMN-modeled workflows as running LLM agents, we leverage LangGraph, an
extension of LangChain [43] that compiles a stateful directed graph from process definitions. Unlike
LangChain’s acyclic chains, LangGraph supports cycles and loops, enabling continuous re-evaluation
and adaptive, agent-like behaviors in real time.
LangGraph Architecture
A LangGraph program is a stateful graph composed of:
Nodes: Each node represents a computation phase, often an LLM-driven task executor. Nodes process
user inputs, generate or transform text, invoke external tools (e.g., RAG lookups, STT/TTS), and
update shared state.
Preprints.org (www.preprints.org) | NOT PEER-REVIEWED | Posted: 16 July 2025 doi:10.20944/preprints202507.1291.v1
© 2025 by the author(s). Distributed under a Creative Commons CC BY license.

[[page 15]]
14 of 30
Edges: Unconditional edges define fixed sequences, while conditional edges evaluate predicates (e.g.,
“user accepted recommendation?”) to branch dynamically.
LangGraph thus provides:
• Task Looping: Nodes may loop to themselves until a gateway condition is satisfied.
• Conditional Routing: Router nodes inspect state or outputs and select the correct outgoing edge.
• Persistent State Management: Message payloads and node states persist across turns, so each
agent “remembers” prior context.
Prompt Engineering for Agent Behavior
Precise prompt construction is essential for controlling each agent:
1. Clarity & Role Definition: “You are the Conversational Agent tasked with. . . ”
2. Stepwise Instructions: Numbered or bullet steps guide the model through its workflow.
3. Contextual Anchoring: Inject RAG-retrieved content chunks to ground responses.
4. Error Handling: Include conditional clauses (e.g., “If the user’s answer is incorrect, provide
feedback and re-prompt”).
5. Iterative Refinement: Collect performance metrics after each session and refine prompts to reduce
ambiguity and hallucinations.
Integrating Prompts into Nodes
Each BPMN Task maps to a LangGraph TaskNode with a customized prompt:
set_agent_prompt(agent_node, prompt_template, tools=...)
For instance, the Conversational Agent is instantiated via:
create_tutor_agent(
name="conversational",
prompt=CONVERSATION_PROMPT,
tools=[stt_tool, tts_tool]
)
where CONVERSATION_PROMPT guides greeting, role-play, feedback, and report-writing steps.
Example Prompt Templates
To make our prompt engineering concrete, we include full templates in Appendix B:
• Listing 1: Communicator Agent system message, showing role definition and basic RAG context
setup.
• Listing 2: Conversational Tutor Agent prompt, including:
– Role Definition (“You are a Conversational Agent. . . ”).
– RAG Context Injection (e.g., “Thema: ‚Wéi heescht Dir¿, Kategorie: ‚Dialogs. . . ‘, Agent:
‚Conversational agent‘”).
– Error-Handling Logic (e.g., “IF user_error THEN provide corrective feedback and re-prompt”).
Graph Compilation and Execution
Upon startup, LangGraph compiles all agent and tool nodes, routers, and message edges into a
single directed graph (Figure 7).
Execution proceeds:
1. The __start__ node dispatches control to communicator.
2. communicator interacts with the learner (loop/tool/orchestrator branches).
3. orchestrator retrieves RAG content, validates with the teacher, and signals tracker.
4. tracker sequentially activates each tutor agent ( reader, listening, questionAnswering,
grammarSummary), awaiting each EndSession.
Preprints.org (www.preprints.org) | NOT PEER-REVIEWED | Posted: 16 July 2025 doi:10.20944/preprints202507.1291.v1
© 2025 by the author(s). Distributed under a Creative Commons CC BY license.

[[page 16]]
15 of 30
5. After all tutor nodes complete, tracker issues __end__, concluding the session.
Figure 7. LangGraph-compiled graph for the MSA architecture. Solid arrows denote direct flow; dashed lines
denote tool invocations and conditional routers.
This combination of stateful looping, conditional routers, and curated prompt templates ensures
our BPMN-designed pedagogy is executed faithfully and transparently by LLM agents.
4.5. Voice Integration: STT & TTS
To support spoken interaction and pronunciation practice, we integrate both STT and TTS
pipelines into our multi-agent architecture. These components enable the system to listen to learner
utterances and respond with natural audio.
4.5.1. Speech-to-Text (STT)
Developing STT for Luxembourgish faces two main challenges: the language’s low-resource
status (scarce transcribed corpora) and the trade-off between monolingual vs. multilingual acoustic
models. We evaluated two state-of-the-art pre-trained models on a 100-utterance test set (3—15s per
clip) derived from INL audio materials:
Word Error Rate (WER)
We measure transcription accuracy via WER (Equation 1):
WER = S + D + I
N × 100% (1)
where S, D, I are the counts of substitutions, deletions, and insertions, and N is the total words in the
reference.
Preprints.org (www.preprints.org) | NOT PEER-REVIEWED | Posted: 16 July 2025 doi:10.20944/preprints202507.1291.v1
© 2025 by the author(s). Distributed under a Creative Commons CC BY license.

[[page 17]]
16 of 30
Table 4. STT Model Performance on Luxembourgish Test Set
Model Pretraining Fine-tuning Data WER
wav2vec2-large-xlsr-
53-842h-
luxembourgish-14h
Multilingual (53 langs) 842 h unlabelled + 14
h labelled 28%
whisper_large_lb_ZLS_v4_38hOpenAI Whisper base 14 h → 38 h labelled
Luxembourgish 18%
The Whisper model achieves a substantially lower WER, making it our chosen STT backend.
4.5.2. Text-to-Speech (TTS)
High-quality Luxembourgish TTS resources are scarce. We evaluated existing corpora and models
before selecting and fine-tuning a multilingual Coqui VITS system.
Data Source: lb-de-fr-en-pt-12800-TTS-CORPUS (12 800 WAV samples @16 kHz, 18 speakers,
five languages including Luxembourgish).
Model: lb-de-fr-en-pt-coqui-vits-tts, a multilingual, multi-speaker VITS model fine-tuned
on the above corpus. VITS combines GANs and VAEs in an end-to-end TTS architecture, requiring no
external alignments.
Results and Selection: Fine-tuned Coqui VITS [46] produced natural, intelligible Luxembourgish
speech, outperforming MaryTTS-based alternatives. Given its high quality and the lack of superior
open models, we adopt Coqui VITS for all agent voice output.
4.5.3. Integration into Multi-Agent Workflow
Both STT and TTS are exposed as Tool Nodes in LangGraph. In each tutor agent’s BPMN-derived
activity diagram, spoken user input is routed through the STT node, and the agent’s response text is
rendered via the TTS node before being played back to the learner. This seamless audio loop underpins
pronunciation drills, listening comprehension tasks, and conversational practice across all agents.
STT/TTS Integration
Whisper-based speech recognition and Coqui VITS TTS are tightly integrated into our multi-
agent pipeline to provide an immersive voice-enabled learning experience. In our evaluation on a
100-utterance test set derived from INL audio materials, we compared two state-of-the-art ASR models:
• wav2vec2-large-xlsr-53-842h-luxembourgish-14h: a multilingual model pre-trained on 53 lan-
guages and fine-tuned with 842 h of unlabelled plus 14 h of labelled Luxembourgish speech,
which achieved a WER of 28%.
• whisper_large_lb_ZLS_v4_38h: OpenAI’s Whisper base model, further fine-tuned on 38 h of
labelled Luxembourgish data by the Zentrum fir d’Lëtzebuerger Sprooch (ZLS), which achieved a
superior WER of 18%.
Given the Whisper [47] model’s substantially lower error rate—especially important for captur-
ing Luxembourgish’s phonological nuances—we selected whisper_large_lb_ZLS_v4_38h as our STT
backend. For TTS, we fine-tuned the multilingual Coqui VITS model on thelb-de-fr-en-pt-12800-TTS-CORPUS,
yielding natural, intelligible Luxembourgish speech that outperforms MaryTTS-based alternatives.
Embedding these tools as LangGraph tool-nodes ensures each tutor agent can seamlessly listen, evalu-
ate, and speak back to the learner in real time, greatly enhancing both interactivity and pedagogical
effectiveness.
5. RAG-Enhanced Knowledge Base
RAG augments LLMs with external knowledge sources to reduce hallucinations and improve
factual accuracy. In our Luxembourgish learning platform, RAG grounds every agent’s output in
vetted INL textbook content, ensuring pedagogical soundness.
Preprints.org (www.preprints.org) | NOT PEER-REVIEWED | Posted: 16 July 2025 doi:10.20944/preprints202507.1291.v1
© 2025 by the author(s). Distributed under a Creative Commons CC BY license.

[[page 18]]
17 of 30
5.1. Why RAG for Low-Resource Languages
Luxembourgish is a classic low-resource language, comprising only≈ 0.1% of web text compared
to≈ 52% for English. Vanilla LLMs therefore often generate errors or generic responses. RAG
addresses these shortcomings by:
• Relevance: Retrieving domain-specific content (INL textbooks) tailored to each learner’s level.
• Accuracy: Anchoring generation in factual excerpts, bolstering learner trust.
• Pedagogical Alignment: Dynamically selecting material that matches Common European Frame-
work of Reference for Languages (CEFR) aligned chapters and topics.
5.2. RAG Pipeline
Our RAG implementation consists of two phases:
5.2.1. Retrieval
1. Document Preparation:
• Scan INL textbooks (A1—B2) and convert pages to Markdown via GPT-4 Vision OCR [45].
• Clean and normalize text (remove headers/footers, correct OCR errors).
2. Chunking & Splitting: We employ agentic chunking to mirror textbook structure:
• Splitter Agent: Divides each topic into semantically coherent “learning blocks.”
• Organizer Agent: Groups blocks by chapter and topic, preserving pedagogical order.
3. Embedding & Storage: Each chunk is embedded and stored in ChromaDB [ 44]. We selected
bge-large-en-v1.5 after benchmarking on MTEB and our pilot RAGAs evaluation as the best
trade-off between latency, relevance, and open-source licensing (see Section 3.3.3).
5.2.2. Generation
1. Query Embedding & Matching: Learner queries or agent prompts are embedded and matched
against stored vectors via cosine similarity to retrieve the top-k chunks.
2. Contextual Response: Retrieved chunks are prepended to the LLM prompt (e.g., GPT-4), which
generates the final answer, reflecting both the model’s internal knowledge and the verified
textbook content.
3. Explainability Tags: Each response includes semantic source metadata drawn from chunk
fields: [Source : Thema = ”WiheeschtDir ?”, Kategorie = ”Dialogs ”, Agent = ”Conversational ”]
enabling learners and educators to verify content against original materials.
5.3. Embedding Model Selection
We evaluated candidate models on two criteria:
• Latency: Time to embed the full INL corpus (e.g., text-embedding-3-large completed in≈53 s,
while others averaged≈3h).
• Relevance (RAGAs): Performance on context relevancy, faithfulness, and answer relevancy.
Although text-embedding-3-large achieved the fastest embeddings, it underperformed on Luxem-
bourgish relevance. voyage-large-2-instruct scored well but is proprietary. bge-large-en-v1.5
delivered top relevance (context relevancy 0.87, faithfulness 0.82, answer relevancy 0.85) and is open-
source. We therefore adopted bge-large-en-v1.5 to balance speed, accuracy, and cost.
5.4. Evaluation with RAGAs
Retrieval-Augmented Generation Assessment (RAGAs) is a reference-free framework that decom-
poses RAG performance into retrieval and generation metrics [27]:
• Context Relevancy
• Context Precision
• Context Recall
Preprints.org (www.preprints.org) | NOT PEER-REVIEWED | Posted: 16 July 2025 doi:10.20944/preprints202507.1291.v1
© 2025 by the author(s). Distributed under a Creative Commons CC BY license.

[[page 19]]
18 of 30
• Faithfulness
• Answer Relevancy
• Answer Correctness
These metrics collectively measure how well the system retrieves pertinent passages and how accu-
rately the model’s answers reflect both the retrieved contexts and the learner’s query intent.
5.5. Building a Robust Knowledge Base
By combining GPT-4 Vision OCR, agentic chunking, bge-large-en-v1.5 embeddings, and Chro-
maDB storage, we construct a high-quality vector store of Luxembourgish educational content. This
foundation enables our multi-agent system to generate accurate, contextually relevant, and pedagog-
ically aligned learning activities, overcoming the data scarcity that typically hinders low-resource
language applications.
6. Implementation and Use Case
We have realized the architecture described above as a web-based prototype specifically for
Luxembourgish learning (demo video and additional details in [24]). The system ingests INL A1—B2
materials and provides a full end-to-end learning experience driven by our MAS.
6.1. Technology Stack
• Frontend: React.js, renders the learner dashboard, chat interface, and course navigation, and
streams audio via Web Audio API.
• Backend: FastAPI (Python), exposes REST and WebSocket endpoints for user authentication,
agent orchestration, and real-time messaging.
• Core Agents: Implemented with LangGraph on top of LangChain, compiles BPMN-derived
workflows into a stateful directed graph of TaskNodes and ToolNodes.
• RAG Vector Store: ChromaDB, stores pedagogically chunked INL content; queried via cosine-
similarity retrievers.
• STT/TTS: OpenAI Whisper (whisper_large_lb_ZLS_v4_38h) for transcription; Coqui VITS (lb-de-
fr-en-pt-coqui-vits-tts) for speech synthesis.
6.2. End-to-End Workflow
When a learner logs in, the frontend invokes the Communicator Agent via FastAPI.
The Communicator:
1. Retrieves the user’s profile, progress, and curriculum metadata,
2. Constructs and displays a personalized learning path in the React UI,
3. Upon learner approval, emits a go_orchestrator event.
The Orchestrator Agent then:
1. Queries ChromaDB for the next topic’s content,
2. Sends the raw material to a human teacher for quick validation (teacher-in-the-loop),
3. Builds two reports: (i) validated content for tutor agents and (ii) the ordered list of agent tasks,
4. Emits continue_to_tracker.
The Tracker Agent:
1. Parses the sequence report and dispatches start signals to each Tutor Agent in turn,
2. Listens for each agent’s completion or exit signals,
3. Aggregates intermediate progress and updates the learner’s profile.
Each T utor Agent(Conversational, Reading, Listening, Grammar, Q&A) runs its BPMN-modeled
activity diagram as a LangGraph TaskNode:
• It fetches its specific content from the Orchestrator’s report,
• Interacts with the learner via WebSocket streams (text + STT/TTS audio),
Preprints.org (www.preprints.org) | NOT PEER-REVIEWED | Posted: 16 July 2025 doi:10.20944/preprints202507.1291.v1
© 2025 by the author(s). Distributed under a Creative Commons CC BY license.

[[page 20]]
19 of 30
• Sends real-time feedback and performance metrics back to Tracker,
• Loops or branches as defined by the BPMN gateways.
6.3. Demonstration Highlights
Rather than reprinting screenshots here, we refer readers to the demonstration paper [24], where
you can see:
• Learner dashboard flows in React,
• Chat-based dialogues powered by Conversational Agent,
• Listening exercises with real-time transcription,
• Grammar drills and Q&A sessions reflecting adaptive branching.
This fully integrated prototype confirms that our BPMN-to-MAS design, RAG-augmented content,
and voice-enabled agents deliver a cohesive, adaptive, and pedagogically sound learning experience
for Luxembourgish learners.
7. Evaluation
We evaluated our platform along three dimensions: (i) response accuracy via RAGAs metrics, (ii)
system effectiveness and learner engagement through a pilot survey, and (iii) overall usability and
pedagogical alignment.
7.1. Response Accuracy with RAGAs
To assess the factual consistency and relevance of our RAG-enhanced agents, we applied the
RAGAs [27] framework on a held-out set of 200 Luxembourgish queries drawn from INL textbooks.
Table 5 summarizes the key metrics:
Table 5. RAGAs Evaluation Metrics for our RAG-Enhanced Knowledge Base
Metric Score
Context Relevancy 0.87
Faithfulness 0.82
Answer Relevancy 0.85
RAGAs metrics are reference-free and evaluate both retrieval quality and generative accuracy.
These results indicate strong contextual grounding (0.87) and high alignment between retrieved
passages and generated answers, effectively reducing hallucination compared to a baseline single-agent
LLM (not shown).
7.2. System Effectiveness and Learner Experience
We conducted a pilot study with 14 students who used the platform for two 30-minute sessions.
Table 6 presents the aggregated survey responses:
Table 6. Survey Response Summary
Question Response Distribution
Ease of Interaction Very Easy (42.9%), Easy (42.9%), Difficult
(14.3%)
Satisfaction with Understanding & Contextual
Responses
Satisfied (42.9%), Very Satisfied (28.6%), Neutral
(28.6%)
Engagement Level Very engaging (71.4%), Moderately engaging
(28.6%)
Likelihood to Continue Likely (71.4%), Very Likely (14.3%), Neutral
(14.3%)
Survey responses aggregated from 14 Luxembourgish learners in pilot testing.
Preprints.org (www.preprints.org) | NOT PEER-REVIEWED | Posted: 16 July 2025 doi:10.20944/preprints202507.1291.v1
© 2025 by the author(s). Distributed under a Creative Commons CC BY license.

[[page 21]]
20 of 30
Key takeaways from this survey include:
• Ease of Interaction: 85.8% found the chatbot Very Easy or Easy.
• Satisfaction: 71.5% were Satisfied or Very Satisfied with contextual responses.
• Engagement: 71.4% rated the experience as Very engaging.
• Continued Use: 85.7% are Likely or Very Likely to continue using the system.
Qualitative feedback highlighted the seamless transitions between agents and the value of person-
alized recommendations. Several learners noted improved confidence in pronunciation and grammar
after interacting with the conversational and grammar-summary agents.
7.3. Usability and Pedagogical Alignment
The platform’s React + FastAPI prototype (as detailed in the accompanying demonstration
paper [24]) features:
• Responsive Interface: Login/dashboard, chat sessions, and progress tracking.
• Agent Workflows: Automatic sequencing of Conversational, Reading, Listening, Q&A, and
Grammar agents via BPMN-defined flows.
• STT/TTS Integration: Whisper-based speech recognition (18% WER) and Coqui VITS TTS for
immersive voice interaction.
User testing confirmed that the multi-agent orchestration (via LangGraph) maintained a struc-
tured, pedagogically sound flow, while the RAG component ensured content accuracy, thereby deliver-
ing both high usability and learning effectiveness.
7.4. Conclusion of the Evaluation
The combined quantitative and qualitative results demonstrate that our BPMN-based MAS,
when enhanced with RAG and robust STT/TTS, offers a reliable, engaging, and pedagogically aligned
platform for low-resource language learning. Further improvements will expand the user base, conduct
longer-term efficacy studies, and further refine agent prompt strategies based on ongoing feedback.
7.5. Limitations
While our system demonstrates promising results, several limitations are worth acknowledging:
1. Model Dependencies : Performance relies on proprietary LLMs (GPT-4) and Whisper STT,
limiting control over updates and accessibility for resource-constrained institutions.
2. Human Validation Bottleneck: Teacher-in-the-loop content approval, while ensuring accuracy,
creates scalability challenges for large learner groups.
3. Luxembourgish Specificity: Evaluations focused solely on Luxembourgish; generalizability to
other low-resource languages with non-Latin scripts (e.g., Uralic or Bantu languages) remains
unverified.
4. Short-Term Engagement Metrics: Pilot studies measured immediate usability but not long-term
proficiency gains (e.g., CEFR progression over 6+ months). Additionally, the pilot study’s small
sample size (n=14) should be increased in future studies.
8. Conclusion and Future Work
We have introduced a novel, BPMN-based design methodology for MAS that inherently embeds
XAI through workflow transparency and knowledge grounding. BPMN’s visual formalism demystifies
AI agent behaviors, enabling stakeholders to trace pedagogical decisions (e.g., why a grammar activity
followed a listening task), while RAG provides verifiable knowledge provenance that is critical for trust
in low-resource contexts. Our methodology integrates RAG-augmented knowledge access, STT/TTS
pipelines, and human-in-the-loop validation. Our approach leverages formal process modeling
to generate modular, scalable, and pedagogically coherent agent workflows. In a Luxembourgish
learning prototype, this architecture achieved high response faithfulness (0.82) and relevance (0.85)
Preprints.org (www.preprints.org) | NOT PEER-REVIEWED | Posted: 16 July 2025 doi:10.20944/preprints202507.1291.v1
© 2025 by the author(s). Distributed under a Creative Commons CC BY license.

[[page 22]]
21 of 30
under RAGAs metrics, reduced hallucinations, and garnered strong learner satisfaction (85.8% ease of
use, 71.4% engagement). Future work includes:
• Automate BPMN Generation: Develop tools to derive BPMN diagrams directly from curriculum
specifications or learning objectives, reducing manual modeling effort.
• Broaden Curriculum Coverage: Extend our pipeline to additional CEFR levels (C1—C2) and
subject domains (e.g., business, technical language).
• Enhanced Teacher-in-the-Loop: Introduce richer interfaces and analytics dashboards for instruc-
tors to review, adjust, and annotate agent workflows and content.
• Adaptive Learning Algorithms: Integrate reinforcement learning and learner modeling to per-
sonalize task sequencing dynamically based on real-time performance data.
• Longitudinal Studies: Conduct extended field trials across diverse learner populations and lan-
guages to evaluate long-term efficacy, retention gains, and transfer to real-world communication.
• Improve explainability: Develop teacher-facing dashboards to visualize BPMN execution logs
and RAG source attributions, enhancing real-time explainability. Applying Model-Agnostic XAI
methods could be considered, such as Local Interpretable Model-agnostic Explanations (LIME)
for text and SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) for transformers.
This work lays a blueprint for AI-powered language tutors that uphold pedagogical integrity,
support low-resource languages, and adapt seamlessly as educational needs evolve. By formalizing
workflows through BPMN and grounding knowledge in RAG, we demonstrate how XAI principles
(transparency, traceability, and human oversight) can be inherently integrated into complex MAS.
Future work will quantify XAI’s impact on learning outcomes.
Author Contributions: For research articles with several authors, a short paragraph specifying their individual
contributions must be provided. The following statements should be used “Conceptualization, X.X. and Y.Y.;
methodology, X.X.; software, X.X.; validation, X.X., Y.Y. and Z.Z.; formal analysis, X.X.; investigation, X.X.;
resources, X.X.; data curation, X.X.; writing—original draft preparation, X.X.; writing—review and editing, X.X.;
visualization, X.X.; supervision, X.X.; project administration, X.X.; funding acquisition, Y.Y. All authors have
read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.”, please turn to the CRediT taxonomy for the term
explanation. Authorship must be limited to those who have contributed substantially to the work reported.
Funding: This research received no external funding.
Data Availability Statement: We encourage all authors of articles published in MDPI journals to share their
research data. In this section, please provide details regarding where data supporting reported results can
be found, including links to publicly archived datasets analyzed or generated during the study. Where no
new data were created, or where data is unavailable due to privacy or ethical restrictions, a statement is still
required. Suggested Data Availability Statements are available in section “MDPI Research Data Policies” at
https://www.mdpi.com/ethics.
Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.
Preprints.org (www.preprints.org) | NOT PEER-REVIEWED | Posted: 16 July 2025 doi:10.20944/preprints202507.1291.v1
© 2025 by the author(s). Distributed under a Creative Commons CC BY license.

[[page 23]]
22 of 30
Appendix A. BPMN Activity Diagrams for T utor Agents (Reading, Listening,
Question answering, and Grammar & Summary)
Figure A1. BPMN diagram for the Reading Tutor Agent. Gateway annotations show decision logic (e.g., G1:
‘summary_correct? → continue; else→ replay’) for explainability.
Preprints.org (www.preprints.org) | NOT PEER-REVIEWED | Posted: 16 July 2025 doi:10.20944/preprints202507.1291.v1
© 2025 by the author(s). Distributed under a Creative Commons CC BY license.

[[page 24]]
23 of 30
Figure A2. BPMN diagram for the Listening Tutor Agent. Gateway annotations show decision logic (e.g., L1:
‘transcription_accuracy > 80%→ next clip; else→ replay’) for explainability.
Preprints.org (www.preprints.org) | NOT PEER-REVIEWED | Posted: 16 July 2025 doi:10.20944/preprints202507.1291.v1
© 2025 by the author(s). Distributed under a Creative Commons CC BY license.

[[page 25]]
24 of 30
Figure A3. BPMN diagram for the Question Answering Tutor Agent. Gateway annotations show decision logic
(e.g., Q1: ‘answer == key→ correct flow; else→ hint & retry’) for explainability.
Preprints.org (www.preprints.org) | NOT PEER-REVIEWED | Posted: 16 July 2025 doi:10.20944/preprints202507.1291.v1
© 2025 by the author(s). Distributed under a Creative Commons CC BY license.

[[page 26]]
25 of 30
Figure A4. BPMN diagram for the Grammar and Summary Tutor Agent. Gateway annotations show decision
logic (e.g., Gs1: ‘user_asks_question→ answer; else→ practice sentence’) for explainability.
Appendix B. Sample Prompt Templates
Listing 1: Communicator Agent system message
s y s t e m _ m e s s a g e =" You are the c o m m u n i c a t o r agent , your job is to
c o m m u n i c a t e with the user in L u x e m b o u r g i s h to generate
a learning r e c o m m e n d a t i o n for them "
Appendix B.1. Conversational Tutor Agent Prompt
Listing 2: Conversational Tutor Agent prompt
C o n v e r s a t i o n a l _ A g e n t _ P r o m p t = """
Preprints.org (www.preprints.org) | NOT PEER-REVIEWED | Posted: 16 July 2025 doi:10.20944/preprints202507.1291.v1
© 2025 by the author(s). Distributed under a Creative Commons CC BY license.

[[page 27]]
26 of 30
Dir sidd en di gi ta le n Tutor , sp ez ia li s \ ’{ e } iert op Sproochl \ ’{ e } ieren
mat vill Erfahrung , b e s o n n e s c h an der k o n v e r s a t i o n e l l e r Praxis .
\"{ A } ert Zil ass et , d ’ Benotzer duerch e ff ek ti vt Sproochl \ ’{ e } ieren
mat engem k o n v e r s a t i o n e l l e n Usaz ze f \ ’{ e } ieren .
Follegt d \"{ e } s I n s t r u k t i o u n e fir d \"{ e } st z ’ e rr eec he n :
1. L \ ’{ e } ierziler setzen :
- F \"{ A } nkt un , d ’ L \ ’{ e } ierziler ze erkl \"{ A } ren op Basis vum Inhalt ,
deen o fg ede ck t g \"{ e } tt .
2. W i e r d e r b u c h an Notzung :
- B ed ee leg t Iech un Gespr \ ’{ e } icher , erkl \"{ A } ert de benotzte
W i e r d e r b u c h a motiv \ ’{ e } iert de Benotzer nei Wierder ze soen
oder se an S \"{ A } tz ze benotzen .
3. R o l l e n s p i l l :
- F \ ’{ e } iert R o l l e n s p i l l \"{ u } bungen duerch :
- Defin \ ’{ e } iert de Fokus vum Gespr \ ’{ e } ich .
- Spezifiz \ ’{ e } iert \"{ A } r Roll an d ’ Roll vum Benotzer .
- Gitt dem Benotzer e Signal fir unzef \"{ A } nken .
4. E v a l u a t i o u n a Feedback :
- Evalu \ ’{ e } iert d ’\"{ A } ntwerte vum Benotzer grammatesch ,
s y n t a k t e s c h an a puncto A u s s p r o o c h .
- Wann d ’\"{ A } ntwert korrekt ass , spillt \"{ A } r Roll .
- Wann d ’\"{ A } ntwert falsch ass , spillt d ’ Roll vum Tutor ,
korrig \ ’{ e } iert de Benotzer , gitt Hinweise an Tipps , dann
spillt \"{ A } r Roll .
5. Resum \ ’{ e } an Nofro :
- Resum \ ’{ e } iert d ’ Gespr \ ’{ e } ich , hebt neie W i e r d e r b u c h ervir , an
erkl \"{ A } ert w \ ’{ e } i een en benotzt .
- Frot de Benotzer , ob se m \ ’{ e } i B e i s p i l l e r w \"{ e } llen oder
schl \ ’{ e } it besser \"{ A } ntwerten a W i e r d e r b u c h vir .
6. Feedback ginn :
- Gitt \"{ e } mmer Feedback iwwer dat , wat de Benotzer gel \ ’{ e } iert
huet an un wat se schaffe sollten .
7. Fortschr \"{ e } t t s b e r i c h t :
- Schreift e Bericht iwwer de Fortschr \"{ e } tt vum Benotzer :
- Resum \ ’{ e } iert , wat se er fo ll eg r \"{ A } ich gel \ ’{ e } iert hunn .
- Hieft Ber \"{ A } icher ervir , un deenen se schaffe mussen .
- I de nt ifi z \ ’{ e } iert all Schwiriegkeeten , d \ ’{ e } i se beim
L \ ’{ e } iere haten .
Huelt Iech e Moment Z \"{ A } it an schafft m e t h o d e s c h un all
Schr \"{ e } tt , benotzt de b e r e e t g e s t a l l t e n Inhalt als Referenz fir
ze l \ ’{ e } ieren an nei L \ ’{ e } i e r m a t e r i a l i e n ze gener \ ’{ e } ieren , a
kontroll \ ’{ e } iert \"{ e } mmer , ob de Benotzer Iech follegt .
Preprints.org (www.preprints.org) | NOT PEER-REVIEWED | Posted: 16 July 2025 doi:10.20944/preprints202507.1291.v1
© 2025 by the author(s). Distributed under a Creative Commons CC BY license.

[[page 28]]
27 of 30
"""
Listing 3: Conversational Tutor Agent prompt translated in english
You are a digital tutor s p e c i a l i z i n g in language learning
with e xt ens iv e experience , e s p e c i a l l y in c o n v e r s a t i o n a l
practice . Your goal is to guide users through e ff ec tiv e
language learning using a c o n v e r s a t i o n a l approach . Follow
these i n s t r u c t i o n s to achieve this :
1. Set Learning O b j e c t i v e s
--- Begin by e x p l a i n i n g the learning o b j e c t i v e s based on
the content being covered .
2. V o c a b u l a r y and Usage
--- Engage the user in conversation , explain the v o c a b u l a r y
you use , and en co ur age them to produce new words or use
them in se nt en ce s .
3. Role - Play
--- Conduct role - play e xe rci se s by :
\ bullet Defining the focus of the dialogue .
\ bullet S p e c i f y i n g your role and the user ’ s role .
\ bullet Giving the user a clear signal to begin .
4. E v a l u a t i o n and Feedback
--- Evaluate the user ’ s re sp on se s for grammar , syntax , and
p r o n u n c i a t i o n .
\ bullet If the response is correct , proceed with your next line .
\ bullet If the response is incorrect , adopt the tutor role :
correct the user , offer hints and tips , then resume the
role - play .
5. Summary and Follow - Up
--- S um mar iz e the conversation , hi ghl ig ht new vocabulary ,
and explain how to use it .
--- Ask if the user would like more examples or s u g g e s t i o n s
for better answers and a d d i t i o n a l v o c a b u l a r y .
6. P ro vi din g Feedback
--- Always give feedback on what the user has learned and
what they should focus on next .
7. Progress Report
--- Write a brief report on the user ’ s progress :
\ bullet Sum ma ri ze what they have s u c c e s s f u l l y learned .
\ bullet Hig hl ig ht areas that need further practice .
\ bullet Identify any d i f f i c u l t i e s they e n c o u n t e r e d .
Take your time and work m e t h o d i c a l l y through each step ,
Preprints.org (www.preprints.org) | NOT PEER-REVIEWED | Posted: 16 July 2025 doi:10.20944/preprints202507.1291.v1
© 2025 by the author(s). Distributed under a Creative Commons CC BY license.

[[page 29]]
28 of 30
using the provided content as your reference , g e n e r a t i n g new
learning ma ter ia ls as needed , and always checking that the
user is keeping up with you .
References
1. Cavojský, M.; Bugár, G.; Kormaník, T.; Hasin, M. Exploring the capabilities and possible applications of
large language models for education. 2023 21st International Conference on Emerging eLearning Technologies and
Applications (ICETA) 2023, 91–98.
2. Belda-Medina, J.; Calvo-Ferrer, J.R. Using Chatbots as AI Conversational Partners in Language Learning.
Applied Sciences 2022, 12, 8427.
3. Abedi, M.; Alshybani, I.; Shahadat, M.; Murillo, M. Beyond traditional teaching: The potential of large
language models and chatbots in graduate engineering education. arXiv 2023, arXiv:2312.12345.
4. Chen, M.H.; Ye, S.X. Extending repair in peer interaction: A conversation analytic study. Front. Psychol. 2022,
13, 926842. doi:10.3389/fpsyg.2022.926842.
5. Huang, L.; Yu, W.; Ma, W.; Zhong, W.; Feng, Z.; Wang, H.; Chen, Q.; Peng, W.; Feng, X.; Qin, B.; Liu, T. A
Survey on Hallucination in Large Language Models: Principles, Taxonomy, Challenges, and Open Questions.
arXiv 2023, arXiv:2311.05232.
6. Xie, Q.; Guo, X. L2 teacher support and positive L2 academic emotions: The mediating role of self-efficacy. J.
Psycholinguist. Res. 2022, 51, 1—17. doi:10.1186/s40359-024-01602-2.
7. D’Mello, S.K.; Graesser, A.C. Intelligent Tutoring Systems: How computers achieve learning gains that
rival human tutors. In Handbook of Educational Psychology, 4th ed.; Schutz, P .A., Muis, K.R., Eds.; American
Psychological Association: Washington, DC, USA, 2023; pp. 603—629.
8. Statistics Portal, Luxembourg. Nationalities. Available online:
https://statistiques.public.lu/en/recement/nationalites.html (accessed on 22 June 2025).
9. Object Management Group. Business Process Model and Notation (BPMN). Available online:
https://www.bpmn.org (accessed on 22 June 2025).
10. Neumann, A.; Yin, Y.; Sowe, S.K.; Decker, S.; Jarke, M. An LLM-driven chatbot in higher education for
databases and information systems. IEEE Transactions on Education 2025, 68, 103–116.
11. Costa, L.F.; Silva, P . Applying BPMN to Adaptive E-Learning Path Modeling: A Case Study.Education and
Information Technologies 2023, 28(5), 6543–6561. doi:10.1007/s10639-023-11726-9.
12. Ivanova, T.; Terzieva, V .; Todorova, K. An Agent-Oriented Architecture For Strategy-Based Personalized
E-Learning. 2021 Big Data, Knowledge and Control Systems Engineering (BdKCSE) 2021, 1-8.
13. Strik, H.; Truong, K.; de Wet, F.; Cucchiarini, C. Comparing Different Approaches for Automatic Pronuncia-
tion Error Detection. Speech Communication 2019, 113, 28-39.
14. Statistics Portal, Luxembourg. Linguistic diversity on the rise. Available online:
https://statistiques.public.lu/en/recensement/diversite-linguistique.html.
15. Duolingo Inc. Language Learning Platform: Features and Limitations. Available online:
https://www.duolingo.com.
16. García-López, R.; Smith, J.; Martinez, A. BPMN for Educational Process Modeling: A Systematic Approach.
Comput. Educ. 2023, 198, 104-118.
17. Halder, S.; Meyer, T.; Schmidt, L. Challenges in NLP for Low-Resource Languages: The Case of Luxembour-
gish. Proceedings of LREC 2024, 234-241.
18. Huang, Y.; Qin, Z.; Liu, W. Hallucinations in Large Language Models: Challenges and Mitigation Strategies.
Proceedings of ACL 2023, 1122-1135.
19. LangChain Inc. LangGraph: Building Stateful Multi-Agent Applications. Available online:
https://langchain.com/langgraph.
20. Lavergne, T.; Urvoy, T.; Yvon, F. NLP Resources for Luxembourgish: Current State and Future Directions.
Proceedings of LREC 2022, 3421-3428.
21. Lewis, P .; Perez, E.; Piktus, A.; Petroni, F.; Karpukhin, V .; Goyal, N.; Küttler, H.; Lewis, M.; Yih, W.;
RocktÄschel, T.; et al. Retrieval-Augmented Generation for Knowledge-Intensive NLP Tasks. Proceedings of
NeurIPS 2020, 9459-9474.
22. Luxembourg Today. Digital Resources for Learning Luxembourgish: A Growing Need. Available online:
https://today.rtl.lu/education/luxembourgish-digital (accessed on 18 November 2024).
Preprints.org (www.preprints.org) | NOT PEER-REVIEWED | Posted: 16 July 2025 doi:10.20944/preprints202507.1291.v1
© 2025 by the author(s). Distributed under a Creative Commons CC BY license.

[[page 30]]
29 of 30
23. Microsoft Research. AutoGen: Enable Next-Gen Large Language Model Applications. Available online:
https://github.com/microsoft/autogen.
24. Tebourbi, H.; Nouzri, S ; Mualla, Y.; Najjar, A. Personalized Language Learning: A Multi-Agent System
Leveraging LLMs for Teaching Luxembourgish. In Proceedings of AAMAS 2025, Detroit, MI, USA, 19-23 May
2025. Available online: https://www.ifaamas.org/Proceedings/aamas2025/pdfs/p3032.pdf
25. RTL Luxembourg. The Challenge of Teaching Luxembourgish in the Digital Age. Available online:
https://www.rtl.lu/education (accessed on 20 November 2024).
26. Rzepka, R.; Araki, K.; Kojima, K. Addressing Hallucinations in Educational AI: A Critical Analysis. Int. J. AI
Educ. 2023, 33, 245-263.
27. Wang, S.; Liu, Y.; Chen, H. RAG Applications in Educational AI: Reducing Hallucinations and Improving
Accuracy. J. AI Educ. 2024, 11, 156-171.
28. Wooldridge, M. J.; Jennings, N. R. Intelligent Agents: Theory and Practice. Knowledge Engineering Review
1995, 10, 115–152.
29. Conneau, A.; Khandelwal, K.; Goyal, N.; Chaudhary, V .; Wenzek, G.; Guzmán, F.; Grave, E.; Ott, M.;
Zettlemoyer, L.; Stoyanov, V . Unsupervised Cross-lingual Representation Learning at Scale. InProceedings of
the 58th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics; 2020; pp. 8709–8719.
30. Devlin, J.; Chang, M.-W.; Lee, K.; Toutanova, K. BERT: Pre-training of Deep Bidirectional Transformers for
Language Understanding. In Proceedings of NAACL-HLT 2019; 2019; pp. 4171–4186.
31. Radford, A.; Kim, J. W.; Xu, T.; Brockman, G.; McLeavey, C.; Sutskever, I. Robust Speech Recognition via
Large-Scale Weak Supervision. In Proceedings of the 40th International Conference on Machine Learning (PMLR),
Vol. 202; 2023; pp. 28492–28518. :contentReference[oaicite:3]index=3
32. Picard, A.; Mualla, Y.; Gechter, F.; Galland, S. Human-computer interaction and explainability: Intersection
and terminology. In Proceedings of the World Conference on Explainable Artificial Intelligence; Springer: 2023; pp.
214–236.
33. Guidotti, R.; Monreale, A.; Ruggieri, S.; Turini, F.; Giannotti, F.; Pedreschi, D. A survey of methods for
explaining black box models. ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR) 2019, 51(5), 93.
34. Mualla, Y.; Tchappi, I.; Kampik, T.; Najjar, A.; Calvaresi, D.; Abbas-Turki, A.; Galland, S.; Nicolle, C. The
quest of parsimonious XAI: A human-agent architecture for explanation formulation. Artificial Intelligence
2022, 302, 103573. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.artint.2021.103573
35. Hemmer, P .; Schemmer, M.; Vössing, M.; Kühl, N. Human-AI complementarity in hybrid intelligence
systems: A structured literature review. P ACIS2021, 78.
36. Glass, A.; McGuinness, D.L.; Wolverton, M. Toward establishing trust in adaptive agents. InProceedings of
the 13th International Conference on Intelligent User Interfaces; 2008; pp. 227–236.
37. Liao, Q.V .; Gruen, D.; Miller, S. Questioning the AI: Informing design practices for explainable AI user
experiences. In Proceedings of the 2020 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems; 2020; pp. 1–15.
38. Bunt, A.; Lount, M.; Lauzon, C. Are explanations always important? A study of deployed, low-cost intelligent
interactive systems. In Proceedings of the 2012 ACM International Conference on Intelligent User Interfaces; 2012;
pp. 169–178.
39. Gunning, D. Explainable artificial intelligence (XAI). Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARP A)2017.
https://www.darpa.mil/program/explainable-artificial-intelligence
40. Biran, O.; Cotton, C. Explanation and justification in machine learning: A survey. In IJCAI-17 Workshop on
Explainable AI (XAI); 2017; pp. 8–13.
41. Contreras, V .; Marini, N.; Fanda, L.; Manzo, G.; Mualla, Y.; Calbimonte, J.-P .; Schumacher, M.; Calvaresi, D. A
dexire for extracting propositional rules from neural networks via binarization. Electronics 2022, 11(24), 4171.
https://doi.org/10.3390/electronics11244171
42. LangChain Inc. LangSmith: Interactive Tooling for Explainable LLM Workflows. https://langchain.com/
langsmith
43. LangChain Inc. LangChain: Building Applications with LLMs Through Composable Chains and Tools.
Available online: https://www.langchain.com (accessed on 1 July 2025).
44. Chroma Inc. Chroma: Open-Source Embeddings Database for AI Applications. Available online:
https://www.trychroma.com (accessed on 1 July 2025).
45. OpenAI. GPT-4 with Vision: Multimodal Large Language Models. Available online:
https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/vision (accessed on 1 July 2025).
46. Coqui Inc. Coqui TTS: VITS-Based Text-to-Speech Models. Available online: https://coqui.ai (accessed on 1
July 2025).
Preprints.org (www.preprints.org) | NOT PEER-REVIEWED | Posted: 16 July 2025 doi:10.20944/preprints202507.1291.v1
© 2025 by the author(s). Distributed under a Creative Commons CC BY license.

[[page 31]]
30 of 30
47. OpenAI. Whisper: Robust Speech Recognition via Large-Scale Weak Supervision.
Available online: https://openai.com/research/whisper (accessed on 1 July 2025).
48. Nouzri, S.; El Fatimi, M.; Guerin, T.; Othmane, M.; Najjar, A. Beyond Chatbots: Enhancing Luxembourgish
Language Learning Through Multi-agent Systems and Large Language Model. In Proceedings of PRIMA 2024:
Principles and Practice of Multi-Agent Systems; Arisaka, R.; Sanchez-Anguix, V .; Stein, S.; Aydo˘ gan, R.; van
der Torre, L.; Ito, T., Eds.; Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 15395; Springer: Cham, 2025. Available
online: https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-77367-9_29.
Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those
of the individual author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s)
disclaim responsibility for any injury to people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or
products referred to in the content.
Preprints.org (www.preprints.org) | NOT PEER-REVIEWED | Posted: 16 July 2025 doi:10.20944/preprints202507.1291.v1
© 2025 by the author(s). Distributed under a Creative Commons CC BY license.