[[page 1]]
From Business Events to Auditable Decisions: Ontology-Governed
Graph Simulation for Enterprise AI
Hongyin Zhua,b,∗, Jinming Liangb, Mengjun Houb, Ruifan Tanga,b, Xianbin Zhua,b, Jingyuan Yangb,
Yuanman Maob and Feng Wub
aYonyou AI Lab,
bYonyou Network Technology Co., Ltd.,
ARTICLE INFO
Keywords:
large ontology model
event-driven simulation
ontology harness engineering
auditable decision intelligence
illusive accuracy
ABSTRACT
Existing LLM-based agent systems share a common architectural failure: they answer from the
unrestrictedknowledgespacewithoutfirstsimulatinghowactivebusinessscenariosreshapethatspace
fortheeventathand—producingdecisionsthatarefluentbutungroundedandcarryingnoaudittrail.
WepresentLOM-action,whichequipsenterpriseAIwithevent-drivenontologysimulation:business
eventstriggerscenarioconditionsencodedintheenterpriseontology(EO),whichdrivedeterministic
graph mutations in an isolated sandbox, evolving a working copy of the subgraph into the scenario-
valid simulation graph𝐺sim; all decisions are derived exclusively from this evolved graph. The core
pipelineisevent→simulation→decision,realizedthroughadual-modearchitecture—skillmodeand
reasoning mode. Every decision produces a fully traceable audit log. LOM-action achieves 93.82%
accuracyand98.74%tool-chainF1againstfrontierbaselinesDoubao-1.8andDeepSeek-V3.2,which
reachonly24–36%F1despite80%accuracy—exposingtheillusiveaccuracyphenomenon.Thefour-
fold F1 advantage confirms that ontology-governed, event-driven simulation, not model scale, is the
architectural prerequisite for trustworthy enterprise decision intelligence.
1. Introduction
Enterprise AI cannot be built on general-purpose LLMs
alone. Enterprise decisions are not made on the static
ontology—they are made on a scenario-evolved version of
it, shaped by the active business conditions of the event
at hand: the carrier contracts in force, the spending policy
currently active, the organizational scope of the requesting
user.General-purposeLLMshavenomechanismtoperform
thisevolution:theyanswerfromtheunrestrictedknowledge
space, producing responses that are fluent but never derived
from the graph the business scenario actually defines.
LOM [26, 24] established the ontological foundation
for enterprise AI. This paper extends LOM with a new
capability that production deployment demands: asandbox
simulation enginethat evolves a working copy of the en-
terprise ontology under active business scenario conditions,
and derives every decision exclusively from the resulting
simulation-valid graph.
LOM-action adds the next piece of the capability puz-
zle:knowing how to delegate. Where LOM grounds what
the model knows and how it reasons, LOM-action governs
whatthemodelcaninvoke—aregistryofexternalresources
including frontier models, specialized tool endpoints, and
domain skill nodes, each accessed through a skill ontology
node carrying EO authorization contracts, making every
delegation an auditable ontological act rather than a black-
box API call. A frontier LLM invoked as a registered skill
nodeoperatesonapreciselybounded,EO-authorizedinput;
itsoutputisinterceptedbyLOM-as-Judge,whichre-grounds
theresultagainstEOauthoritybeforewritingittothesession
zhuhongyin@yonyou.com(H. Zhu)
ORCID(s):0000-0001-5786-7594(H. Zhu)
ontology.Thecapabilityceilingthereforerisescontinuously
astheregisteredskillsetexpandsandfrontiermodelquality
improves, without retraining.
Each business event—a structured data payload from an
enterprise system that carries sufficient semantic content to
activate EO-encoded scenario conditions—poses a specific
question: not “what does the static graph say?” but “what
doesthegraphsayafterthisevent’sscenarioconditionshave
reshaped it?” Event-driven AI answers by first evolving the
ontology under those conditions, then deriving decisions
exclusively from the evolved state.
Businessscenariosarepropertiesoftheontologicalcon-
text, not features of event text, so injecting them as prompt
instructions fails: the model treats them as soft preferences
and may still operate on the unrestricted graph. The cor-
rect scope for any tool call is not the static graph but
the simulation-valid𝐺 sim that survives the organization’s
activescenarioconditions;asystemthatbypassessimulation
answers a different question than the one the enterprise
eventposed,withnoauditbasis.LOM-actionaddressesboth
gaps with a strictly ordered three-phase pipeline—scenario
parsing, sandbox simulation, decision derivation—backed
by a persistent, isolated graph sandbox: when a business
event arrives, a working copy of the enterprise ontology is
instantiated under a uniquegraph_id; Phase 2 mutates this
copy without touching the authoritative EO graph; Phase 3
executes decisions against the evolved state, with every
mutation logged for full auditor replay.
This paper makes three contributions. (1) Thescenario
simulationinnovation: EO-authorized constraint predicates
drive deterministic sandbox graph mutations before any
decision is derived, confirmed empirically to close the sim-
ulation gap that frontier LLMs systematically leave open.
First Author et al.:Preprint submitted to ElsevierPage 1 of 21
arXiv:2604.08603v1 [cs.AI] 8 Apr 2026

[[page 2]]
(2) Thedecision derivationinnovation: the event→simu-
lation→decision pipeline via a dual-mode architecture—
skill mode for registered skill calls; reasoning mode for
novel computations—with every decision producing a fully
traceable, replayable decision trace. (3) Thesimulation-
first principleand the illusive accuracy index IA(𝑀) =
Acc(𝑀)−F1_chain(𝑀), validated across 11 tasks.
Theremainderofthispaperisorganizedasfollows.Sec-
tion2reviewsrelatedwork.Section3presentstheapproach
across Sections 3.1–3.7. Section 4 reports experiments, re-
sults, and limitations. Section 5 concludes. Appendix A
covers the ontology harness engineering and broader LOM
global architecture.
2. Related Work
2.1. Tool-Augmented LLM Agents
The modern tool-use paradigm traces from ReAct [22],
which interleaves reasoning traces with action execution,
through Toolformer [17], which introduces self-supervised
tool annotation, to OpenAI function calling [8], which stan-
dardizedJSONSchema-basedAPIinvocationasafirst-class
modelinterface.Subsequentworkhaspushedthisparadigm
intwodirections:scaleandspecialization.Onscale,frontier
systems—GPT-4o [8], Claude with extended thinking [1],
Gemini function calling [18]—have dramatically raised the
zero-shot ceiling for tool invocation quality. On special-
ization, fine-tuning methods such as ToolACE [11], Ham-
mer [10], and xLAM [23] demonstrate that domain-curated
corpora can substantially close the gap with frontier models
on standard function-calling benchmarks. Evaluation has
maturedaccordingly:BFCL[15]providesarigorousleader-
board covering parallel, nested, and multi-turn invocations;
𝜏-bench [21] evaluates agentic task completion across ex-
tended dialogues; WorFBench [16] targets multi-step work-
flow planning.
Despite this progress, all these systems share one archi-
tecturalassumption:toolselectionisalanguagemodelinfer-
encedecisionmadefromthefullinputcontext,withscenario
conditions provided (if at all) as natural language instruc-
tions in the prompt. No system introduces a mandatory
sandbox simulation step that evolves the knowledge graph
beforeanytoolisinvoked.LOM-actionchallengesthisatthe
root: tool selection is a consequence of sandbox-simulated
graph evolution, not a generative act over the unrestricted
space.Existingbenchmarksalsoshareameasurementgap—
they evaluate tool-call accuracy without measuring whether
decisions were derived from a correctly evolved graph. Our
tool-chain F1 and Illusive Accuracy index fill this gap by
distinguishing decisions produced through scenario-driven
simulation from those produced by operating on the unre-
stricted graph, exposing a failure mode invisible to standard
accuracy metrics.
2.2. Knowledge Graph Reasoning and Enterprise
Semantic Systems
The integration of LLMs with ontologys has advanced
rapidly along the retrieval axis. KG-augmented LLMs em-
bed graph information—including domain-specific hetero-
geneousknowledgeunifiedintostructuredrepresentations[29]—
inpromptsorfine-tuningdatatoimprovefactualgrounding.
The underlying ontologys themselves depend on structured
relation extraction pipelines [30] that adaptively identify
typed entity relationships in text, a foundational step that
KG-augmented LLM approaches typically assume as a
precondition. GraphRAG [5] introduces community-aware
hierarchical graph summarization as a retrieval layer for
document corpora. GNN-RAG [13] combines graph neural
network traversal with retrieval-augmented generation for
multi-hop question answering. Think-on-Graph 2.0 [12]
iterativelybeam-searchesontologypathstoguideLLMrea-
soning. Complementary to these retrieval-focused methods,
graph representation learning has advanced node-level un-
derstanding through semantic-structural attention-enhanced
graph convolutional networks [25] and pre-trained graph
autoencoders incorporating hierarchical topology knowl-
edge [28].
Across all these works, the ontology is astatic retrieval
substrate—a source of evidence that the LLM draws on but
doesnotmodify.Enterprise-specificsystemsfollowasimilar
pattern: text-to-SQL systems for BI [6, 7] treat database
schemasasretrievalaids,andDB-GPT[20]integratesLLMs
with database engines for natural language querying but
positions the schema as context rather than authority. None
of these systems maintains a mutable simulation sandbox
where the graph is evolved to model business scenarios
before decisions are derived; the ontology is consulted, not
simulated. LOM-action differs fundamentally: the sandbox
is a dynamic, mutable execution workspace where scenario
operations evolve a copy of the enterprise graph in an
isolated environment, subsequent reasoning operates on the
evolvedstate,andtheEOisnotmerelyconsulted—itautho-
rizes every mutation before any model inference proceeds.
The simulation-first principle—the best decision is the best
decision among those derivable from the simulation-valid
graph—has no direct precedent in the enterprise LLM liter-
ature.
2.3. Long-Context Management
The long-context LLM literature has approached the
problem of extended conversations primarily through ca-
pacity: Gemini 1.5 Pro supports up to 1M tokens [19],
GPT-4ohandles128K,andarchitecturalinnovationssuchas
Longformer[2]andTransformer-XL[4]extendeffectiveat-
tentionspans.Complementaryworkoncontextefficiency—
SnapKV[9],PyramidKV[3],LLMLingua[14]—compresses
orprunestokensequencestoimproveutilizationwithinfixed
windows. These approaches treat the context management
problem as one of capacity: fit more history, or compress it
more efficiently.
First Author et al.:Preprint submitted to ElsevierPage 2 of 21

[[page 3]]
LOM-action reframes the problem as one ofseman-
tic precision: the issue is not that context windows are
too short, but that accumulated raw text is semantically
undifferentiated—every prior turn competes for the same
attentionbudgetregardlessofrelevancetothecurrentevent.
By replacing raw conversation history with typed session
ontology(SO)subgraphdeltaskeyedtoEOentitiesandrela-
tions,LOM-actionachievessession-positionalinvariance—
the same event type on the same ontological state produces
the same simulation-grounded decision regardless of con-
versationalposition,becausecontextfootprintisboundedby
semanticscoperatherthanturncount.Thisisapropertythat
capacity scaling cannot provide.
2.4. Deployed Enterprise AI Products
A distinct competitive landscape consists of AI systems
already deployed in enterprise settings: Microsoft Copilot
for Microsoft 365 (released 2023) integrates LLM gener-
ation into productivity workflows via retrieval over docu-
ment corpora and graph-based organizational context from
Microsoft Graph; Salesforce Einstein GPT (2023) embeds
LLMs into CRM event pipelines, enabling natural language
interactions over customer records and workflow triggers;
ServiceNow AI (2024) integrates generative and predictive
models into IT service management workflows with event-
driven ticket routing. These systems demonstrate the com-
mercialviabilityofevent-triggeredAIinenterprisecontexts
and confirm the demand for decision automation at scale.
LOM-action’s contribution is architecturally orthogo-
nal to these deployments. The systems above are primar-
ilyretrieval-augmented: they fetch relevant documents or
records and provide them as context to a general-purpose
LLM, which then generates a response over the full re-
trieved context. None introduces a mandatory ontology-
governed simulation step that evolves the enterprise ontol-
ogy under active scenario conditions before any decision is
derived; none enforces EO-authorized constraint predicates
as a structural gate on the reasoning substrate; and none
produces a replayable, operation-level decision trace whose
scope is provably bounded to the simulation decision graph
𝐺sim. Where those systems ask “what does the retrieved
context say?”, LOM-action asks “what does the scenario-
evolved graph say?”—a distinction that is invisible to re-
trieval accuracy metrics but directly measurable through
tool-chain F1.
3. Approach
3.1. Scenario Simulation and Decision Derivation
LOM-action is defined by two innovations that form a
unified pipeline, not independent contributions.
Innovation1—ScenarioSimulation.Enterpriseevents
do not operate on the unrestricted ontology. They operate
withinacontextofbusinessscenarios:EO-authorizedcondi-
tionsonentitiesandrelationsthatdefinewhichportionofthe
graph is the valid reasoning substrate for this event, by this
user, under the currently active organizational policies. Let
𝐺=(𝑉,𝐸)betheenterpriseontologyand={𝑟 1,…,𝑟 𝑘}
the active scenario condition set. Scenario conditions fall
into two classes, producing distinct simulation graphs that
are collectively denoted𝐺sim.Constraint conditionsrestrict
thegraphbyremovingnodesoredgesthatviolateanaccess
policy or organizational rule; they produce the scenario-
valid subgraph𝐺:
𝐺=(𝑉 , 𝐸),
𝑉={𝑣∈𝑉∣∀𝑟 𝑖∈, 𝑟𝑖(𝑣)=⊤},
𝐸=𝐸[𝑉 ]
Augmentation conditionsextend the graph by adding new
nodes and edges (e.g., newly created organizational units)
or reweighting existing edges (e.g., applying a surcharge
schedule); they produce the scenario-augmented graph𝐺:
𝐺=(𝑉∪Δ𝑉, 𝐸[𝑉∪Δ𝑉]∪Δ𝐸)
whereΔ𝑉andΔ𝐸are the EO-authorized node and edge
deltas produced by the scenario program. In both cases
𝐺sim ∈ {𝐺,𝐺 }is the simulation object: the working
copy of the enterprise graph evolved under active scenario
conditions before any decision is derived. Tasks 9–10 in
ourbenchmarkinstantiatetheconstraintcase(𝐺 );Task11
instantiates the augmentation case (𝐺). For brevity, the
remainder of this paper uses𝐺 to refer to the simulation
graph in contexts where the constraint case is primary;
augmentation-specific properties are noted explicitly where
they differ. Every condition inmust be EO-authorized—
areimbursementceilingcannotbeanarbitraryvalue;anac-
cessscopecannotbeinferredfromstatisticalpatterns.LOM-
action supports not only simple attribute predicates but
alsocomplexnaturallanguage-describedbusinessscenarios
whose logic involves multi-step conditional computation.
SuchscenariosareparsedinPhase1intoorderedsequences
ofPhase2sandboxoperationsthatimplementthescenario’s
conditionallogicasadeterministicgraphcomputation,with
every intermediate state written to the SO evidence chain
and every value traced to an EO-authorized constraint.
Innovation 2 — Decision Derivation.In existing agent
systems, tool selection is the first-class decision, made from
the full input context. In LOM-action, by the time the deci-
sion step executes, the information space has already been
reduced to𝐺 through sandbox simulation. The tool call is
not a decision about what to retrieve—it is a computation
on an already-simulated, already-scenario-valid graph. The
pipeline is strictly sequential:
Data Event
Align
← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← →EO Semantics
Phase 2: Simulation
← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← →𝐺sim
Phase 3: Decision
← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← →Tool(𝐺sim)→Decision Trace
Skipping Phase 2 does not produce a faster answer—it pro-
duces an answer to the wrong question. The correct reason-
ingsubstrateforanydecisionisnotthestaticgraph:itis𝐺 sim
(𝐺 in the constraint case,𝐺 in the augmentation case),
First Author et al.:Preprint submitted to ElsevierPage 3 of 21

[[page 4]]
the graph evolved by the organization’s active scenario con-
ditions.AsystemthatbypassesPhase2answers“whatdoes
thestaticgraphsay?”ratherthan“whatdoesthesimulation-
evolved graph say?”—and the resulting decision carries no
simulationtraceandnoauditbasis.Ourexperimentsconfirm
this:F1=0.00onbasictraversaltasksforfrontierbaselines
despite near-perfect accuracy, and a 34% accuracy gap on
scenario tasks where𝐺 differs substantively from𝐺.
3.2. Enterprise AI vs. Consumer AI: The
Simulation-First Principle
Prerequisite: the enterprise ontology.LOM-action’s
simulation pipeline assumes that an enterprise ontology
(EO)existsandissufficientlypopulatedtoauthorizethesce-
nario conditions required by incoming events. This is a real
prerequisite,notatrivialone.Constructingandmaintaining
an enterprise ontology is a substantial undertaking that pre-
cedes LOM-action deployment. We addressed this issue in
our prior work [26]. The RAC (Reason→Align→Con-
struct) evolutionary flywheel described in Appendix A.8 is
ourarchitecturalpathtowardreducingthecold-startburden:
by capturing candidate ontology nodes from deployment
interactions and routing them to a governed review process,
RAC enables the EO to grow incrementally from real or-
ganizational use rather than requiring full pre-specification.
Forthecurrentinstantiation,the19-functiongraphAPIsuite
operates on synthetic Neo4j ontologies whose nodes and
scenario conditions are fully specified; the path to real en-
terpriseontologiesisthroughSKILLS-standardintegration,
which we identify as the primary future work direction.
The architectural inversion.In consumer AI the LLM
holdsfullreasoningauthority;everythingelseisscaffolding.
InenterpriseAIthisisinverted:theontologyistheauthority
andtheLLMisonecomponentoftheexecutionharnessthat
channels ontological authority into natural language inter-
action and decision derivation. The full harness design is
elaboratedinSection3.7;herewefocusontheoptimization-
theoretic implication of this inversion.
Two optimization contracts.Consumer AI operates
underasingle-stagecontract:maximizeanswerqualityover
the full knowledge space. There is no hard correctness
boundary; approximate answers are acceptable. Enterprise
AI operates under a two-stage contract: (1) identify the
simulation-valid set—the set of decisions derivable from
thescenario-evolvedgraph𝐺 ;(2)findargmax .Stage(1)
isnon-negotiableandalwayscomesfirst.Adecisionoutside
, however high its quality score, is not suboptimal—it is a
non-answer from the perspective of enterprise governance,
because it was not derived from the correct simulation. A
routingsystemthatfindsthemostefficientpathwhileignor-
ing today’s carrier contract constraints has not produced a
suboptimal route; it has produced a route derived from the
wronggraph.Nodecisionqualitycompensatesforamissing
simulation.
Architecturalimplication.Thistwo-stagestructurehas
a direct consequence: any system that performs optimiza-
tion before sandbox simulation is architecturally unsuited
for enterprise deployment. LLMs trained on consumer data
and fine-tuned for answer quality are single-stage optimiz-
ers over the full answer space. They produce fluent, high-
qualityanswersthatmaybederivedfromthewronggraph—
not because they are malicious, but because the simulation
boundary is not part of their optimization target. The only
architectural fix is to enforce the scenario simulation before
any optimization occurs. This is precisely what the sandbox
simulationstepofLOM-actiondoes:itcomputes𝐺  before
any tool is called, ensuring that the entire optimization
process operates on the correct simulation-valid substrate.
Reframing evaluation.High answer accuracy does not
imply simulation-grounded reasoning. A model achieving
98% accuracy on connectivity queries while recording F1
= 0.00 is not 98% correct in the enterprise sense—it is
98%accidentallycorrect,havingreachedtherightanswerby
operating on the wrong graph without any simulation trace.
Such a system passes quality benchmarks while systemati-
callyfailingtheauditrequirementthatdecisionsbederivable
from simulation. The illusive accuracy index IA(𝑀) =
Acc(𝑀)−F1_chain(𝑀)quantifiesthisgap.Werecommend
F1_chain≥0.90and IA≤0.30as deployment readiness
thresholds for simulation-sensitive systems.
3.3. The Event→Simulation→Decision Pipeline
The event→simulation→decision pipeline is imple-
mented across three structured phases:
Phase 1 — Scenario Parsing.The system receives the
incoming event payload and aligns it to EO ontological
semantics via the alignment function Align∶→𝑉 𝐸𝑂 ×
[0,1]. It identifies the active scenario condition predicates
embedded in or implied by the event payload. In the
current implementation, conditions are expressed explicitly
ineventpayloadtext(e.g.,“onlynodeswhereijudgemethod =
’1’”).InproductionundertheSKILLSstandard,theywillbe
resolvedautomaticallyfromEO-encodedentityandrelation
constraints by the EO alignment machinery—activated by
the eventś EO semantic targets rather than stated in the
event payload. For complex natural language scenarios—
suchaslogisticstransshipmentcostadjustments,conditional
reimbursement ceilings, or multi-tier approval predicates—
Phase 1 produces not a single boolean predicate but asce-
nario program: an ordered sequence of typed Phase 2 sand-
box operations that collectively implement the scenario’s
conditional logic. For example, the scenario “transshipment
via Hub X adds a 12% surcharge to the outbound leg,
cappedatthecarrier’scontractedrateceiling”isparsedinto
a three-step program: (i)match_edgesto identify outbound
legs routed through Hub X; (ii)update_edgesto recompute
edgeweightsbyapplyingthesurchargescheduleagainstEO-
encoded carrier rate tables; (iii)match_edgesagain to flag
edges exceeding the ceiling for deletion or rerouting. Each
step in the scenario program traces to an EO-authorized
constraint, preserving the provenance requirement: no rate
table value, no discount ceiling, and no hub classification
may enter the scenario program without EO authorization.
The output of Phase 1 is a structured predicate set=
First Author et al.:Preprint submitted to ElsevierPage 4 of 21

[[page 5]]
{𝑟1,…,𝑟 𝑘}, each element tracing to an EO-authorized con-
straint on entities or relations.
Phase 2 — Sandbox Simulation.The model applies
to the sandbox graph copy via targeted tool calls. It
callsmatch_nodesand/ormatch_edgestoidentifyelementsex-
cludedbyeachscenariocondition.Itthencallsdelete_nodes
ordelete_edgesto materialize𝐺  as the active sandbox
state undergraph_id. This modification is session-scoped
(SO only—the persistent EO graph is never touched). After
Phase 2, thegraph_idpointer refers to𝐺 , not𝐺. The
simulationdecisiongraphexistsinthesandbox.Nodecision
may be derived before this point.
Emptygraphhandling.Awell-formedPhase2execution
may produce𝐺  = (∅,∅)when all nodes are excluded by
the active scenario conditions—for example, when a user’s
organizationalscopecontainsnonodessatisfyingtheaccess
policy for the current event. This is not an error; it is a
valid simulation outcome that carries decision content: any
connectivity or path query on the empty graph returns “no
valid path exists”, any flow computation returns zero, and
any neighbor lookup returns the empty set. The sandbox
returns a structured result in all cases, and Phase 3 writes
this result to the SO decision trace with the annotation
{simulation_result: “empty_graph”, reason: “all nodes
excluded by”}.Thisempty-graphsignalissurfacedtothe
userorupstreamsystemasadefinitive,auditabledecision—
not a system failure—enabling downstream processes to
handle the absence of a valid route as a first-class organi-
zational outcome.
Phase 3 — Decision Derivation on𝐺 sim.With the
sandbox holding𝐺sim (either𝐺  or𝐺  depending on the
scenario class), the model executes the decision tool call—
shortest_path,check_graph_connectivity,calculate_max_flow,
etc.—againstgraph_id. The tool operates exclusively on the
simulation decision graph. The result, together with the
Phase 1 and Phase 2 trace, is written to the SO decision
trace. The decision trace is the audit deliverable: it records
which scenario conditions were applied, which simulation
was performed in the sandbox, and which decision was
derived from which evolved graph state.
Thecanonicalinstantiationforscenario-constrainedcon-
nectivity (fc_constraint_connection) is shown in Table 3.3.
A general-purpose LLM skipping Phase 2 calls
shortest_path(graph_id, "A", "B")directly on the unre-
stricted graph. This produces a decision for the wrong
question—connectivity in𝐺, not in𝐺—while generating
an empty decision trace.
3.4. Dual-Mode Execution Architecture and
Sandbox State Management
The event→simulation→decision pipeline introduces
a foundational design choice that directly resolves the infi-
nite context problem endemic to enterprise multi-turn AI:
the simulation decision graph𝐺 is never loaded into the
LOM’scontextwindowduringnormaloperation.Itismain-
tained exclusively in a persistent sandbox session, keyed
bygraph_id. This is not a performance optimization—it is
an architectural invariant. The sandbox is the simulation
substrate;thecontextwindowisthereasoningsurface.They
are not interchangeable.
3.4.1. The Sandbox as the Ground Truth of
Simulation State
EveryPhase2operation(scenarioapplicationviamatch_nodes,
delete_nodes,create_edge, etc.) and every Phase 3 decision
(shortest_path,calculate_max_flow, etc.) operates against
thegraph_id-keyed sandbox entry, not against any represen-
tation in the LLM’s context. The sandbox holds the current
stateof𝐺  atalltimes.Themodel’scontextholdsonly:the
current event payload, the active EO scenario condition set
, the SO turn log (typed triples annotated with EO node
references and turn indices), and the skill ontology function
schema registry.
This separation carries a critical correctness guarantee:
as long as each tool call uses the correct function name
andcorrectarguments,thesandboxsimulationstateevolves
correctly—regardless of what else is in the context window,
regardless of how long the conversation has been running,
and regardless of how many prior turns have touched dif-
ferent graph scopes. A 100-turn enterprise conversation
touching100differentgraphscopesdoesnotaccumulate100
turns of raw graph data in context. It accumulates 100 turn
log entries—compact typed triples, each bounded in size by
thesemanticscopeofthatturn’sPhase2simulation.Context
footprint is proportional to the size of𝐺’s delta for that
turn, not to the size of the full session history.
3.4.2. The Graph Sandbox: Isolation, Atomicity, and
Verifiability
The sandbox is backed by an isolated, session-scoped
in-memory graph store that receives all API calls directed
at a givengraph_idand executes them against a live Neo4j-
compatible graph engine. The sandbox provides three guar-
antees essential for the simulation-first contract.
Isolation:eachgraph_ididentifiesacompletelyindepen-
dentgraphinstance;Phase2mutationstoonesession’ssim-
ulation graph never affect another session or the persistent
EO graph.
Atomicity:eachtoolcall(e.g.,delete_nodes,create_edge)
is executed transactionally within the sandbox—either the
full operation succeeds and the simulation state advances,
or it fails and the state is unchanged, enabling clean retry
and error handling without partial simulation traces.
Verifiability: because the sandbox records every mu-
tation as a timestamped operation log, the decision trace
writtentotheSOisfullyreplayable—anyauditorcanreplay
the exact sequence of operations against the original graph
snapshot and verify that the final sandbox state matches the
claimed𝐺 .Eachlogentryrecordsthefunctionname,argu-
ments,returnvalue,andtimestamp,formingadeterministic
replay chain for any session.
Thegraph_idUUIDisthereforenotmerelyaroutingkey;
it is the handle to a simulation-auditable execution context.
When LOM-action callsdelete_nodes(graph_id="abc123",
First Author et al.:Preprint submitted to ElsevierPage 5 of 21

[[page 6]]
Table 1
An illustrative example of the three-phase event→simulation→decision pipeline, triggered by a streaming expense-approval
event activating an EO-encoded access-scope condition.
Sandbox: live copy of approval-routing graph (V, E) under graph_id
[Pre-registered EO scenario condition]
R = {v.ijudgemethod !='1'-> excluded from active approval path}
Trigger: fires on any incoming data event carrying field [approval_type]
-- Streaming data event arrives --
event_007: { "source_node": "Dept_Finance",
"approval_type": "expense",
"amount": 42000,
"currency": "CNY",
"timestamp": "2025-06-01T09:14:22Z" }
Phase 1 -- Scenario Parsing:
event_007.approval_type = "expense" -> activates EO scenario condition R
scenario program:
step 1: match_nodes(ijudgemethod !='1') [identify non-compliant nodes]
step 2: delete_nodes(...) [remove from sandbox copy]
step 3: shortest_path(source, target) [derive routing decision]
Phase 2 -- Sandbox Simulation:
match_nodes(graph_id, properties={"ijudgemethod": {"op":"ne","value":"1"}})
-> excluded = {Node_B, Node_C, Node_F}
delete_nodes(graph_id, node_names=["Node_B","Node_C","Node_F"])
-> G_R materialized: 14 nodes, 19 edges (was 17 nodes, 26 edges)
Phase 3 -- Decision Derivation on G_R:
shortest_path(graph_id, source="Dept_Finance", target="CFO_Node")
-> path: [Dept_Finance -> VP_Ops -> CFO_Node] (both nodes: ijudgemethod='1')
-> decision: ROUTE event_007 via [VP_Ops -> CFO_Node]
-> Decision Trace written to SO:
{ event_id: "007", triggered_rule: R,
deleted_nodes: [Node_B, Node_C, Node_F],
final_path: [Dept_Finance, VP_Ops, CFO_Node],
timestamp: "2025-06-01T09:14:22Z" }
-- Sandbox reloaded from EO snapshot; ready for next event --
node_names=[...]),itisnotissuinganaturallanguageinstruction—
it is submitting a structured operation to the sandbox that
will mutate the simulation state deterministically, return a
structured result, and append an immutable log entry. The
model never needs to reason about whether the mutation
“happened”; it is guaranteed by the sandbox contract.
Benchmark Role.The 19-API suite and the Neo4j sub-
graph sampling system together constitute the LOM-action
benchmark:acontrolledevaluationenvironmentforthesce-
nario→simulation→decision pipeline. The benchmark
requires evaluation on two axes simultaneously—answer
accuracy (does the final decision match the ground-truth
result on𝐺 ) and tool-chain F1 (does the execution trace
correctly implement Phase 2 sandbox simulation followed
by Phase 3 decision derivation, with correct API calls and
arguments at each step). A model that scores high on accu-
racybutlowonF1isdemonstrablybypassingthesandbox—
reaching correct answers by operating on the unrestricted
graph, which constitutes a simulation failure even when the
answer coincides with the scenario-valid result.
3.4.3. The Dual-Mode Execution Model
LOM-action’s overall execution logic is a single in-
tegrated cognitive act that simultaneously resolves three
inputs—the active scenario condition set, the incoming
event𝑞, and the current SO state—and produces one of two
execution paths depending on whether the skill ontology
contains a matching registered skill.
Step1—JointScenario–Event–SkillReasoning.The
model simultaneously reads(the EO-authorized scenario
conditionsforthisevent),parses𝑞(theeventpayloadaligned
First Author et al.:Preprint submitted to ElsevierPage 6 of 21

[[page 7]]
Table 2
An illustrative example of the dual-mode (skill mode + reasoning mode) pipeline, triggered by a streaming organisational-change
event that augments the sandbox graph and requires a conflict-free audit-slot assignment.
Sandbox: live copy of audit-responsibility graph (V, E) under graph_id
nodes = auditor roles; edges = shared-client conflicts
[Pre-registered EO scenario condition]
R_expand: fires on data event type [org_restructure]
-> integrate new organisational units and their conflict edges into sandbox
-> then re-derive audit-slot assignment to ensure zero scheduling conflicts
-- Streaming data event arrives --
event_031: { "event_type": "org_restructure",
"new_units": ["BusinessUnitAgent", "ClosingRuleSubtable",
"RegionalAuditDesk", ...],
"new_conflicts": [
{"u": "ClosingRuleSubtable", "v": "AuditRule"},
{"u": "RegionalAuditDesk", "v": "VP_Ops"}, ...],
"timestamp": "2025-06-01T10:03:45Z" }
Phase 1 -- Scenario Parsing:
event_031.event_type = "org_restructure" -> activates R_expand
scenario program:
step 1: create_nodes(new_units) [add new roles to sandbox]
step 2: create_edges(new_conflicts) [add shared-client conflict edges]
step 3: get_graph_info() [read augmented graph structure]
step 4: Delta+1 greedy coloring [no registered skill -> reasoning mode]
Phase 2 -- Sandbox Simulation: [skill mode: graph augmentation]
create_nodes(graph_id, nodes=[
{"name":"BusinessUnitAgent", "label":"AuditorRole"},
{"name":"ClosingRuleSubtable", "label":"AuditorRole"}, ... ])
-> {"status":"ok", "created":{"nodes":[...]}}
create_edges(graph_id, edges=[
{"source":"ClosingRuleSubtable","target":"AuditRule","rel_type":"CONFLICT"},
{"source":"RegionalAuditDesk", "target":"VP_Ops", "rel_type":"CONFLICT"}, ...])
-> {"status":"ok", "created":{"edges":[...]}}
G_R := G union DeltaV union DeltaE (augmented graph reflects new org structure)
Phase 3 -- Decision Derivation on G_R:
[skill mode] get_graph_info(graph_id)
-> {"graph": {"nodes": [...45 roles], "edges": [...54 conflict-edges]}}
-> max degree Delta = 14 (role with most shared-client conflicts)
No registered skill covers Delta+1 greedy coloring; switching to reasoning mode.
[reasoning mode] In-context greedy coloring on fused, attribute-pruned G_R:
color budget = Delta + 1 = 15 (minimum audit-slot count guaranteed conflict-free)
greedy pass: assign lowest available slot per role in traversal order
slot sequence: [0,0,0,...,1,2,2,...,0,0]
total slots used (color sum) = 10
-> decision: ASSIGN 10 audit slots; full slot map written to SO
-> Decision Trace written to SO:
{ event_id: "031", triggered_rule: R_expand,
new_nodes: 8, new_edges: 11, max_degree: 14,
slots_required: 10, timestamp: "2025-06-01T10:03:45Z" }
-- Sandbox reloaded from EO snapshot; ready for next event --
First Author et al.:Preprint submitted to ElsevierPage 7 of 21

[[page 8]]
to EO semantics), and inspects the skill ontology registry to
identify which skill nodes have input signatures matching
the sandbox simulation state and preconditions satisfied by
the active scenario conditions. Rules constrain the search
spaceintheskillontology;theeventpayloaddeterminesthe
targetcomputation;theintersectiondetermineswhatisboth
needed and scenario-valid.
Step 2 — Branch: Skill Found or Not Found.
Skill Mode⟶Select skill
args from𝐺
← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← →Tool call on sandbox
⟶Result to SO (sandbox never
enters context)
Reasoning Mode⟶Read𝐺  from sandbox into context
⟶LOM self-reasoning
⟶Result to SO
Skill Mode.If the skill ontology contains a node𝑠with
Pre(𝑠)⊆and𝜎 in(𝑠)matching the current sandbox state,
LOM-action selects𝑠and constructs its argument values
from the current𝐺  state as known from prior turn log
entries. The tool call executes against the sandbox. At no
point does the raw graph structure enter the LLM context
window. The model reasons over the interface of the simu-
lation graph—node names, edge types, aggregate statistics
from prior tool results in the turn log—not over the graph
content in bulk.
Reasoning Mode.If no skill ontology node covers the
required computation (a condition that arises for novel ana-
lytical queries outside the registered skill set), LOM-action
reads𝐺  from the sandbox into the context window, as
shown in Table 3.3. This is the only circumstance under
which raw graph content enters the LLM context. Before
loading, event-driven graph fusion is applied: given𝑘prior
sessionsubgraphsspanningmultipleturns,thefusionopera-
tionproducesasingleclean,attribute-prunedrepresentation:
𝐺fused=Merge ({𝐺𝑖}𝑘
𝑖=1
)|||attrs∈Relevant(𝑇𝑞)
where Relevant(𝑇𝑞)retains only attributes reachable from
the event’s EO alignment targets𝑇𝑞 within two hops. The
fused graph eliminates intra-node noise and consolidates
multi-turn simulation state into a single high-density repre-
sentation. Only this fused, pruned graph enters the context.
LOM-actionisadual-modemodel,simultaneouslytrained
for both paths. Skill mode is the default and the norm—it
handles the vast majority of enterprise queries for which
a registered skill exists, keeping the context free of raw
graph data. Reasoning mode is the exception—it handles
novelcomputationsthattheskillontologydoesnotyetcover,
consuming context tokens in a controlled, noise-minimized
manner. This two-path structure reflects a broader design
principle: LOM maintains a finite, governed registry of
SKILLSratherthananunboundedone,whilepreservingits
own graph reasoning capability as a permanent fallback—
ensuring that capability gaps degrade gracefully rather than
catastrophically.
3.4.4. Context Complexity Analysis
Let 𝑡 denote the conversational history at turn𝑡.
Under a raw text accumulation baseline, context footprint
is𝑂(| 𝑡|)—linear in conversation length. Under LOM-
action’s architecture:
•Skillmode:contextfootprintis𝑂(|TurnLog 𝑡|)=𝑂(𝑡⋅
𝛿)where𝛿istheaveragetypedtriplecountperturn—
typically𝑂(10 1)triples, not𝑂(10 3–104)raw tokens
per turn. In our benchmark,𝛿ranges from 3 to 28
typed triples per turn (mean≈ 12), compared to
800–4,000 raw tokens per turn for equivalent con-
versational history. Context grows with conversation
length but at a rate orders of magnitude lower than
raw text accumulation, with each entry carrying full
EO provenance for relevance filtering.
•Reasoning mode: context footprint is𝑂(|𝐺 fused|)—
bounded by the semantic scope of the current event,
independent of conversation length. The same event
typeatTurn3andTurn300producesthesame𝐺 fused
as long as the relevant SO subgraph state has not
changed—the session-positional invariance property.
LOM-actionsupportsa1milliontokencontextwindow,
providing capacity headroom for reasoning mode computa-
tions involving large organizational knowledge scopes. The
window is never the bottleneck in skill mode; in reasoning
mode,event-drivenfusionensuresthattheloadedgraphrep-
resentationismaximallycompactbeforeanytokenbudgetis
consumed.
3.5. Training Data Generation and the Graph API
Suite
The 19-function skill ontology.LOM-action is trained
over a suite of 19 graph operation APIs that collectively
instantiatetheskillontologyforthegraph-operationdomain.
All functions follow the OpenAI function calling JSON
schema specification and acceptgraph_idas the manda-
tory routing key to the sandbox. They are organized into
six functional families: conditional matching (match_nodes,
match_edges—Phase2scenariosimulationtools);node/edge
operations (create_node/nodes,delete_nodes,update_nodes,
create_edge/edges,delete_edges,update_edges,set_edge_weights—
sandboxmutationtools);informationretrieval(get_node_info,
get_graph_info,get_node_neighbors); path and connectivity
(shortest_path,check_graph_connectivity,check_direct_edge,
analyze_graph_node—Phase3decisionderivationtools);and
graphalgorithms(calculate_max_matching,calculate_max_flow).
These 19 APIs will be extended to real enterprise skill
ontology nodes—ERP query interfaces, document work-
flow triggers, approval chain APIs, financial computation
services—under the SKILLS standard in future work.
Three interaction modescorrespond to EO context
graph operating states. Mode A (direct reasoning: static
First Author et al.:Preprint submitted to ElsevierPage 8 of 21

[[page 9]]
graph in context, no simulation phase needed—for events
with no active scenario conditions). Mode B (simulation-
mediated:fullscenario→simulation→decisionpipeline—
for scenarioqueries againstgraph_id-keyedstores). Mode C
(hybrid: graph mutated via tools, then in-context algorith-
mic computation on the fused, attribute-pruned result using
reasoning mode).
Sample Generation.A plugin-based generation system
synthesizes training samples from Neo4j subgraphs (20–30
nodes, 30–60 edges). Eight plugins cover the full API suite.
Scenariosimulationplugins(constraint_connection_plugin,
constraint_path_plugin,filter_plugin)aredesignedspecif-
ically to train the complete event→simulation→decision
pipeline: the model must learn that Phase 2 is not an opti-
mization heuristic but a mandatory simulation prerequisite.
The corpus totals 2,200 training samples across 11
tasks (200 per task): basic traversal tasks (CONNECTIVITY,
NEIGHBOR,PREDECESSOR,EDGE), information retrieval tasks
(fc_graph_info,fc_node_info), graph algorithm tasks
(fc_bipartite_maximum_matching,fc_maximum_flow),scenario-
simulationtasks(fc_constraint_connection,fc_constraint_path),
and the hybrid Mode C task (delta_plus_one_coloring).
All ground-truth tool sequences are executed against the
live Neo4j sandbox; answers are algorithm-derived. The
simulation-ordered curriculum described in Section 3.6
governs the training stage sequencing.
3.6. Model Training
Base Model and Fine-Tuning.LOM-action is initial-
izedfromQwen3.5-27Basthebasemodelandfine-tunedvia
supervised fine-tuning (SFT) on the 2,200-sample training
corpus.Qwen3.5-27Bprovidesstronginstruction-following
and structured output capabilities that form a solid founda-
tion for the multi-step function-calling behaviors required
by the event→simulation→decision pipeline. Training
uses the standard causal language modeling objective over
assistantandtoolturns,withuserandsystemturnsmasked
from the loss. The full 19-function JSON schema registry
is provided in the system context for every training sample,
ensuring the model internalizes the complete skill ontology
API surface alongside the simulation pipeline structure.
CurriculumSchedule.Trainingproceedsinsimulation-
ordered stages: (1) basic traversal and information retrieval
tasks (Phase 3-only, no scenario simulation), where the
modellearnscorrectAPIselectionandargumentformatting;
(2)scenario-simulationtasks(Phase2+3),wherethemodel
learns the mandatory sandbox simulation prerequisite; (3)
hybrid Mode C tasks, where the model learns to transition
between skill mode (sandbox tool execution) and reasoning
mode (in-context reasoning on the fused evolved graph).
This ordering mirrors the pedagogical principle of skill
scaffolding: the model masters individual API invocations
before learning to compose them into simulation-enforcing
pipelines.
Current Limitations and the SKILLS Standard.The
present implementation grounds scenario conditions in nat-
urallanguagedescriptionswithineventpayloadtextandrep-
resentsskillsasOpenAI-compatibleJSONschemafunction
definitions. In future work, we will unify both layers under
the SKILLS standard specification: a formal ontological
schema for declaring skill preconditions, postconditions,
input/output type signatures, and authorization constraints
asmachine-readable,EO-linkedtypedstructuresratherthan
naturallanguage.UndertheSKILLSstandard,scenarioacti-
vationwillbederivedautomaticallyfromEOnodetraversal
rather than parsed from event payload text. This transition
fromnatural-language-describedscenariosandadhocfunc-
tion schemas to SKILLS-standardized ontological declara-
tions is the primary engineering path to production enter-
prise deployment.
3.7. Production Deployment Principles: LOM as
Ontology Harness
3.7.1. The Harness Metaphor
Anenginealoneproducesnowork.Itrequiresaharness—
adynamic,executableenvironmentthatcouplestheengine’s
power to a load and converts raw force into directed pro-
ductive output. The enterprise ontology is the engine: it
encodes organizational authority, semantic constraints, and
thecompletespecificationofwhatistrue,whatispermitted,
and how computations must be performed. LOM is the
harness: it creates the dynamic, executable environment in
which the ontology’s authority is coupled to real business
tasks—natural language interaction, streaming data events,
multi-step simulation, and auditable decision derivation.
Without the harness, the engine idles; without the engine,
the harness has nothing to transmit. This metaphor is not
decorative—ithasaprecisearchitecturalimplication.Every
design decision in LOM-action is evaluated by a single cri-
terion: does it transfer more of the ontology’s authority into
productive output, or does it introduce a path that bypasses
ontological authority in favor of model-internal shortcuts?
The four production principles below operationalize this
criterion.
3.7.2. Human-in-the-Loop as the Production Unlock
ThesinglemostimpactfulinterventionformovingLOM
from research prototype to production deployment is the in-
troductionofahuman-in-the-loop(HITL)stageattheintent
boundary—the moment between a user’s natural language
input and the system’s first ontological alignment decision.
Enterprise inputs are frequently underspecified. A user
who types “find the best approval route for this expense”
has not specified which organizational scope applies, which
carrier contract is active, or whether the request falls under
a standard or exception workflow. A purely automated sys-
tem must either hallucinate these parameters (producing a
fluentbutontologicallyunauthorizedanswer)orfailsilently
(returning an empty result with no explanation). Neither
outcome is acceptable in production.
First Author et al.:Preprint submitted to ElsevierPage 9 of 21

[[page 10]]
The HITL stage resolves this by surfacing the align-
ment uncertainty to the user before any sandbox simula-
tion begins. When the confidence-gated alignment function
Align(𝑞)→(𝑣,𝑐)returns𝑐 < 𝜃 accept for one or more
entities, LOM-action generates a targeted clarification turn:
it presents the candidate EO nodes and their nearest onto-
logical neighbors, asks the user to confirm or correct the
alignment, and incorporates the response before proceeding
to Phase 2. This is not a conversational convenience—it
is a compliance gate. A clarification turn that resolves an
ambiguousorganizationalscopeconvertsapotentiallyunau-
thorized simulation into a provably authorized one, because
the Phase 2 sandbox now operates on a graph whose scope
has been explicitly confirmed against EO authority.
The analogy to existing practice is instructive. Large
language model assistants such as Claude achieve high task
completion rates not by attempting to execute underspec-
ified requests directly, but by conducting multi-turn intent
clarification—progressivelyimprovingthequalityandcom-
pleteness of the input until the system can proceed with
confidence. The same principle applies to LOM-action: the
quality of the simulation decision graph𝐺  is bounded
by the quality of the scenario conditions that produce it,
and those conditions are bounded by the quality of the
intent alignment that precedes them. HITL is therefore not
a workaround for model limitations—it is the architectural
mechanism that raises the information quality of every sim-
ulation to the level required for ontologically authorized
execution.
HITL is a simple loop, not agentic infrastructure.A
precisescopeboundarymustbedrawntoavoidarchitectural
overreach. HITL as practiced in LOM-action is ashort
clarification loop: typically two to five turns that progres-
sively resolve ambiguous entity alignments until the input
is sufficiently grounded for Phase 2 to begin. This is cate-
goricallydistinctfromagenticharnessarchitectures—long-
running autonomous agent frameworks designed to sustain
thousands of model calls over hours or days to complete a
single complex task (e.g., autonomously generating a full
ERP module from a specification, or coordinating multi-
source intelligence collection over an extended operation).
Agentic harness infrastructure is the right tool for tasks
that genuinely require autonomous multi-day execution; it
is the wrong tool when the actual production bottleneck
is input underspecification resolvable in five clarification
turns. Misidentifying a HITL problem as a harness problem
produces the opposite of the intended result: it introduces
infrastructurecomplexitythatobscuresthesimplefix,makes
the system harder to debug, and leaves the original under-
specification problem unresolved beneath layers of automa-
tion.
The AI coding anti-pattern.A recurring misidenti-
fication in enterprise LOM deployment, observed during
internal pilot deployments, occurs when teams respond
to subgraph retrieval failures by generating more com-
plex retrieval code—conditional logic, multi-stage filtering
pipelines, heuristic fallbacks—using AI coding tools. We
conjecturethatthisapproachfailsforastructuralreason:the
retrieval failure is typically not caused by insufficient code
complexity but by insufficient input specification. LOM-
actionrequirestwoinputstoexecutecorrectly:theontology
subgraph(thestructuralscope)andthealignedscenariocon-
dition set(the organizational constraint). When either is
underspecified,generatedcodeoperatesonthewrongscope
because the scope was never correctly identified. The HITL
loop addresses this directly: rather than generating code to
handletheambiguityprogrammatically,thesystemsurfaces
theambiguitytotheuserandincorporatestheclarifiedinput
before proceeding. Whether this pattern generalizes across
deploymentcontexts isan empiricalquestion; wepropose it
as a design hypothesis warranting controlled evaluation in
future work.
3.7.3. Four Production Deployment Principles
The following four principles govern the engineering
of LOM-action in production and are proposed as general
guidelines for any LOM-based enterprise deployment.
Principle 1: Minimize business logic in code; max-
imize it in the ontology.Custom code written to imple-
ment business logic—conditional branches, policy lookups,
computation rules—is a liability: it duplicates organiza-
tional knowledge that already exists in the EO, creates a
maintenance burden as policies change, and introduces a
bypass path that the ontology cannot audit. LOM-action’s
production engineering discipline requires that all business
logicbeexpressedasEO-encodedscenarioconditions,skill
ontology preconditions, or EO.Logic-Constraint computa-
tion formulas—never as procedural code embedded in the
pipeline. The harness implements the simplest possible ex-
ecution loop; the ontology carries all organizational mean-
ing. Complexity in the harness is a signal that ontological
authority has been short-circuited.
Principle 2: All context must be ontology-grounded;
nothing may bypass the ontology or ignore it.Every
entity, relation, metric, and constraint that enters the rea-
soning pipeline must be resolved to an EO.Standard-ID
canonical identifier before any simulation proceeds. Raw
strings,unresolvednaturallanguageexpressions,andvalues
notpresentinEO.Enumeration-Systemareflaggedandheld
at the HITL clarification stage. This principle has two di-
rections:nothingmaybypasstheontology(proceedingwith
ungroundedentities)andnothingmayignoreit(treatingthe
ontology as optional context rather than mandatory author-
ity). The context window of the LOM model at any point
containsonlyontologicallytypedcontent:EO-anchoredturn
logentries,theactivescenarioconditionset,andtheskill
ontology function schema—never raw conversational text
accumulated without ontological structure.
Principle3:PreferLOMateveryinferencepoint;use
frontier LLMsonly where LOMcannot yet reach.Every
inference step that can be handled by a smaller, ontology-
fine-tuned LOM model should be. General-purpose frontier
First Author et al.:Preprint submitted to ElsevierPage 10 of 21

[[page 11]]
LLMs are powerful but expensive, slow, and—critically—
not trained to respect ontological authority as a hard con-
straint. The production engineering practice is to identify
each pipeline step where a frontier model is currently used
and test whether a LOM variant (fine-tuned on domain-
specific simulation traces) can replace it while maintaining
decision quality. This is not a cost-reduction heuristic: a
smaller LOM model that has been trained to enforce the
event→simulation→decision pipeline is architecturally
more trustworthy for enterprise use than a larger frontier
model that treats scenario conditions as soft preferences.
Frontier models are retained only for tasks that genuinely
exceed current LOM capability—long-document compre-
hension, multi-modal analysis, code generation—and each
suchdelegationisitselfanEO-authorizedskillontologycall
subject to HITL review.
Principle 4: Use LOM to govern the environment;
expose the ontology schema and graph query logic for
human inspection.LOM governs not only individual deci-
sions but the entire execution environment: it manages the
sandbox lifecycle, enforces the skill ontology registry, and
maintains the SO evidence chain. This environmental gov-
ernance role—LOM as the harness that couples ontological
authoritytoeveryexecutionstep—requiresthattheenviron-
ment itself be inspectable. In production, the EO schema,
the active scenario condition set, and the graph query
logic executed in Phase 2 must be exposed through human-
readable audit interfaces. An operator must be able to see
which nodes were matched, which were deleted, and which
graph state the Phase 3 decision was derived from—not as
a debugging convenience but as the primary accountability
surface. LOM also serves asjudge: it evaluates the outputs
of subordinate models and tool calls against ontological
authority before writing results to the SO, rejecting any
output that cannot be grounded in an EO-authorized entity
orcomputation.ThisLOM-as-Judgeroleclosesthelastgap
between a system that produces plausible outputs and one
that produces auditable decisions.
4. Experiments
4.1. Dataset
The LOM-action benchmark comprises 11 function-
callingtasksdrawnfromthegraphoperationAPIsuite,each
designedtoprobeadistinctcapabilityoftheevent→simula-
tion→decisionpipeline.Eachtaskhas200trainingsamples
and 100 held-out test samples, for a total of 2,200 training
and 1,100 test instances. All subgraphs are sampled fresh
from Neo4j (20–30 nodes, 30–60 edges per instance) with
disjointgraphUUIDsbetweentrainingandtest,ensuringno
memorization of specific graph configurations.
Tasks 1–8 require only Phase 3 decision derivation (no
scenario-driven sandbox simulation). Tasks 9–10
(fc_constraint_connection,fc_constraint_path) require the
full Phase 2→Phase 3 pipeline: the model must run the
sandbox simulation to materialize𝐺 before executing any
connectivityorpathquery.Task11(delta_plus_one_coloring)
activates the dual-mode architecture: skill mode handles
graphmutationandretrieval,whilereasoningmodehandles
the in-context greedy coloring computation on the fused,
attribute-pruned simulation graph. We note that Task 11
is a graph-theoretic task selected specifically to probe the
dual-mode execution boundary; its connection to enterprise
scenarios (e.g., conflict-free audit slot assignment) is illus-
trative rather than directly grounded in a deployed business
process. Future benchmark iterations will replace it with a
taskderivedfromarealenterpriseworkflowwherethedual-
mode boundary arises organically from the skill ontology
coverage gap.
4.2. Experimental Setup
LOM-action is compared against two zero-shot frontier
baselines—Doubao-1.8 and DeepSeek-V3.2—via their na-
tivefunction-callingAPIswiththefull19-functionschema.
The comparison is inherently asymmetric (LOM-action is
fine-tuned;baselinesarezero-shot),butthisreflectsthemost
realisticenterprisedeploymentalternative.Thekeymetricis
tool-chain F1, not Acc: fine-tuning teaches domain answer
quality;theevent→simulation→decisionpipelineteaches
simulation-grounded reasoning chains—categorically dif-
ferent capabilities. The F1 = 0.00 result on basic traversal
tasks for zero-shot baselines cannot be explained by do-
mainknowledgegaps,sincethosetasksrequirenoscenario-
specific knowledge; the failure is architectural. All models
are evaluated on the same 1,100-sample held-out test set
(disjointgraph_idUUIDs from training); baselines report
means over three independent runs.
4.3. Evaluation Metrics
Answer Accuracy (Acc):exact match on the final ex-
tracted answer—inflatable via simulation bypass, hence in-
sufficient alone.
Tool-ChainF1:let ̂𝐶=[̂ 𝑐1,…, ̂ 𝑐𝑚]and𝐶 ∗=[𝑐 ∗
1,…,𝑐 ∗
𝑛]
be the predicted and ground-truth tool-call sequences. Calls
are matched order-sensitively:̂ 𝑐𝑖 matches𝑐 ∗
𝑖 iff names are
equal and all required argument key-value pairs appear
exactly. Let𝑀be the number of matched positions; then
P=𝑀∕𝑚(0if𝑚= 0), R=𝑀∕𝑛(1if𝑛= 0),
F1= 2PR∕(P+R)(0if P+R= 0). Skipping Phase 2
yields F1= 0.00even when the final answer is correct.
Task-level F1 is mean over 100 test instances; overall F1
is macro-average across 11 tasks.
Illusive Accuracy:IA(𝑀)=Acc(𝑀)−F1_chain(𝑀).
Deployment thresholds F1_chain≥0.90, IA≤0.30
are heuristic starting points; practitioners should calibrate
against their audit requirements.
4.4. Main Results
Tables 3 and 4 report Answer Accuracy and Tool-Chain
F1 across all eleven tasks, and must be read together: accu-
racy alone is insufficient to characterize simulation-capable
agents. On overall accuracy, LOM-action achieves 93.82%
against 80.00% and 80.18% for Doubao-1.8 and DeepSeek-
V3.2 respectively. The F1 gap is far more decisive: 98.74%
First Author et al.:Preprint submitted to ElsevierPage 11 of 21

[[page 12]]
Table 3
Answer Accuracy (Acc)
Task LOM-action Doubao-1.8 DeepSeek-V3.2
CONNECTIVITY 1.00 0.98 1.00
NEIGHBOR 1.00 1.00 0.98
PREDECESSOR 1.00 1.00 1.00
EDGE 1.00 1.00 1.00
fc_graph_info 0.88 0.94 0.78
fc_node_info 1.00 0.16 0.86
fc_bipartite_maximum_matching 1.00 1.00 0.90
fc_maximum_flow 1.00 1.00 0.70
fc_constraint_connection 1.00 0.66 0.64
fc_constraint_path 0.98 0.98 0.96
delta_plus_one_coloring 0.46 0.08 0.00
Overall 0.9382 0.8000 0.8018
Table 4
Tool-Chain F1
Task LOM-action Doubao-1.8 DeepSeek-V3.2
CONNECTIVITY 1.00 0.00 0.00
NEIGHBOR 1.00 0.00 0.00
PREDECESSOR 1.00 0.00 0.00
EDGE 1.00 0.00 0.00
fc_graph_info 1.00 0.00 0.92
fc_node_info 1.00 0.00 0.06
fc_bipartite_maximum_matching 1.00 0.02 0.26
fc_maximum_flow 1.00 0.00 0.02
fc_constraint_connection 0.987 0.325 0.351
fc_constraint_path 0.959 0.602 0.671
delta_plus_one_coloring 1.00 0.22 0.41
Overall 0.9874 0.2442 0.3621
versus 24.42% and 36.21%—a four-fold advantage that re-
flects a categorical difference in reasoning behavior. The
illusive accuracy indices (Doubao-1.8 = 0.56, DeepSeek-
V3.2 = 0.44, LOM-action =−0.05) confirm the pattern:
both baselines achieve high accuracy while systematically
bypassingsimulation-groundedreasoningchains,mostvisi-
blyonthefourbasictraversaltaskswhereF1=0.00despite
near-perfect accuracy.
The scenario-simulation tasks expose the enterprise-
critical failure most directly. Onfc_constraint_connection,
LOM-action achieves 1.00 accuracy against 0.66 and 0.64
for the baselines—a 34-point gap attributable to Phase 2
bypass: both baselines invokeshortest_pathdirectly on the
unrestricted graph rather than first running the sandbox
simulation to materialize𝐺 , producing decisions for the
wrong graph scope.
On the hybrid Mode C task (delta_plus_one_coloring),
LOM-action records F1 = 1.00 with accuracy = 0.46, con-
firming that simulation-chain correctness and in-context al-
gorithmic accuracy are separable capabilities. Skill mode
executes without error; failures are confined to reasoning
mode greedy coloring computation, and the improvement
path is localized accordingly.
4.5. Analysis
Grouped Performance Summary.Table 5 aggregates
results by task category to clarify where LOM-action’s ad-
vantage is architectural (scenario-simulation, hybrid) ver-
sus where it reflects fine-tuning efficiency on domain APIs
(basic traversal, graph algorithms). The 95% confidence
intervalsarecomputedas𝑝±1.96
√
𝑝(1−𝑝)∕𝑛with𝑛=100
per task, and are reported for LOM-action Acc only—the
primary method under evaluation. Baseline Acc values are
meansoverthreeindependentruns;theirpoint-estimatevari-
ance is smaller than LOM-action’s CI width in all groups.
The grouped view makes the paper’s central claim pre-
cise. On Basic Traversal and Graph Algorithms, F1 = 0.00
for both baselines despite near-perfect Acc—the Illusive
Accuracy phenomenon at scale, not a performance tie. On
Scenario-Simulation tasks, both Acc and F1 diverge: non-
overlapping95%CIs(LOM-actionAccCI=[1.00,1.00]vs.
Doubao = [0.57, 0.75]) confirm statistical significance. On
Hybrid tasks, LOM-action CI [0.36, 0.56] does not overlap
with Doubao [0.03, 0.13] or DeepSeek [0.00, 0.00]. The
only group where LOM-action does not dominate Acc is
Information Retrieval, where Doubao-1.8 outperforms on
fc_graph_info(0.94 vs. 0.88)—consistent with the error
First Author et al.:Preprint submitted to ElsevierPage 12 of 21

[[page 13]]
Table 5
Grouped Results (Acc / F1) with 95% Confidence Interval (CI) on LOM-action Acc
Group LOM Acc LOM F1 Doubao Acc Doubao F1 DS-V3.2 Acc DS-V3.2 F1
Basic Traversal (×4) 1.00 [1.00, 1.00] 1.00 0.995 0.00 0.995 0.00
Information Retrieval (×2) 0.94 [0.89, 0.99] 1.00 0.55 0.00 0.82 0.49
Graph Algorithms (×2) 1.00 [1.00, 1.00] 1.00 1.00 0.01 0.80 0.14
Scenario-Simulation (×2) 0.99 [0.97, 1.00] 0.973 0.82 0.464 0.80 0.511
Hybrid / Mode C (×1) 0.46 [0.36, 0.56] 1.00 0.08 0.22 0.00 0.41
analysis showing 29% of LOM-action’s errors are incom-
pletefc_graph_infochains.
Finding 1: Illusive Accuracy is empirically verified,
not inferred.To confirm that F1 = 0.00 on basic traversal
tasks reflects genuine tool-call absence rather than format-
ting failures, we manually inspected 50 randomly sampled
Doubao-1.8 outputs on CONNECTIVITY tasks. Of 50
outputs: 47 produced correct binary answers with zero tool
calls (pure natural language responses); 3 produced mal-
formedtoolcallsfailingJSONschemavalidation.Nooutput
executed a validcheck_graph_connectivityorshortest_path
call against the sandbox. The model reasons correctly about
graphconnectivityfromitsparametricknowledge—achieving
near-perfect accuracy—without any sandbox engagement.
This is the illusive accuracy phenomenon precisely: correct
answers derived without simulation-grounded reasoning,
carrying no audit trail and no compliance evidence.
Finding 2: The simulation gap is the enterprise-
criticalgap.ThelargestAccdifferentialoccursonscenario-
simulation tasks: LOM-action 1.00 vs. Doubao-1.8 0.66 vs.
DeepSeek-V3.2 0.64 onfc_constraint_connection—a 34-
point gap that persists against frontier models with vastly
more parameters. Both baselines skip Phase 2 and call
shortest_pathontheunrestrictedgraph,producingdecisions
for the wrong simulation scope. Their occasional correct
answers onfc_constraint_path(Acc = 0.96–0.98) occur
when the shortest path in𝐺coincidentally equals the path
in𝐺 —accidentally simulation-valid guesses that would
not hold under different scenario configurations. F1 reveals
theunderlyingfailure:0.464/0.511,confirmingincomplete
simulation-application chains across roughly half of all
scenario simulation attempts.
Finding 3: Mode C decouples simulation-chain cor-
rectnessfromalgorithmicaccuracy.LOM-actionachieves
F1 = 1.00 but Acc = 0.46 ondelta_plus_one_coloring. The
95% CI [0.36, 0.56] is non-overlapping with both base-
lines, confirming statistical significance. Skill mode exe-
cuteswithouterrorinalltestinstances;failuresareconfined
to reasoning mode in-context greedy coloring computation
(color-sum miscalculationdue tonode orderingambiguity).
The improvement path is localized: better in-context algo-
rithmicreasoningforreasoningmode,leavingtheskillmode
pipeline intact.
Finding 4: The simulation-first principle reframes
the performance comparison.The overall Acc gap (0.938
vs. 0.800/0.802) is partly attributable to the fine-tuning
advantage over zero-shot baselines. The F1 gap (0.987 vs.
0.244/0.362)isnot:fine-tuningteachesdomainanswerqual-
ity; the event→simulation→decision pipeline teaches
simulation-grounded reasoning chains. These are distinct
capabilities.Thefour-foldF1advantageisthemeasureofthe
architecturalcontribution,andthegroupedanalysisconfirms
itisstatisticallysignificantacrosseverytaskcategorywhere
simulation-grounded reasoning is exercised.
Error Analysis.LOM-action’s approximately 68 incor-
rectpredictions(1,100testsamples,Acc=0.938)distribute
as: in-context computation errors 47% (color-sum miscal-
culation indelta_plus_one_coloring), incomplete tool chain
29% (fc_graph_info—model skipsget_graph_info), argu-
ment hallucination 15% (minor node-name mismatches in
scenariotasks),modemisclassification9%(ModeBapplied
toModeAsamples,incurringtoollatencywithoutaccuracy
impact).
4.6. Limitations
We identify three limitations that bound the current
results and define the agenda for future work.
Benchmarkscopeandgeneralization.Allexperiments
areconductedonsyntheticNeo4jsubgraphsof20–30nodes
and 30–60 edges. Real enterprise ontologies operate at or-
ders of magnitude greater scale—hundreds of thousands of
nodes with complex inheritance hierarchies, heterogeneous
attribute types, and significant noise and incompleteness.
We havenot demonstrated thatPhase 2 simulationaccuracy
and Phase 3 decision quality scale to these conditions, nor
that a model fine-tuned on graph-domain tasks transfers
to different ontological domains (e.g., financial ledger on-
tologies, HR organizational graphs). Cross-scale and cross-
domaingeneralizationexperimentsareapriorityforthenext
evaluation cycle.
Absent fine-tuned baseline ablation.The compari-
son between LOM-action (fine-tuned) and frontier models
(zero-shot) does not fully isolate the architectural contribu-
tion from the training contribution. The ideal ablation—a
Qwen3.5-27B model fine-tuned on the same 2,200 samples
withoutthe Phase 2 simulation curriculum—would directly
measure how much of the F1 gain comes from ontology-
governed architecture versus domain fine-tuning alone. We
note that the F1 = 0.00 result on basic traversal tasks for
frontier zero-shot models provides partial evidence that the
failureisarchitecturalratherthandomain-knowledge-based,
since those tasks require no enterprise-specific knowledge;
First Author et al.:Preprint submitted to ElsevierPage 13 of 21

[[page 14]]
however, the controlled ablation remains necessary and is
planned.
Event throughput and latency.LOM-action processes
eachbusinesseventthroughamulti-phasepipelineinvolving
multiple LLM calls (Phase 1 parsing, Phase 2 tool exe-
cution, Phase 3 decision derivation). For high-frequency
event streams—financial transaction processing, real-time
logistics tracking, high-volume approval workflows—end-
to-end latency and concurrent event handling are critical
production constraints that we have not measured. Concur-
rent events sharing agraph_idrequire sandbox locking or
versioning semantics whose performance implications are
uncharacterized.Productiondeploymentwillrequirelatency
profilingandthroughputbenchmarkingunderrealisticevent
load distributions.
5. Conclusion
LOM-action establishes event-driven ontology simula-
tion as the architectural prerequisite for trustworthy en-
terprise AI: business events trigger EO-encoded scenario
conditions, which drive deterministic sandbox graph mu-
tations to produce the simulation decision graph𝐺 sim,
from which all decisions are exclusively derived. Fine-
tuned on Qwen3.5-27B with 2,200 samples across 11 tasks,
LOM-action achieves 93.82% accuracy and 98.74% tool-
chain F1 against zero-shot frontier baselines that reach only
24–36% F1 despite 80% accuracy—the illusive accuracy
phenomenon. The four-fold F1 advantage confirms that
ontology-governedsimulationarchitecture,notmodelscale,
separates genuine enterprise decision intelligence from flu-
ent but ungrounded answers.
Future work proceeds along four axes: (1)SKILLS-
standard integration—replacing natural-language scenario
descriptionswithaformalontologicalschemainwhichsce-
narioactivationderivesautomaticallyfromEOgraphtraver-
sal; (2)RAC governance hardening—deploying the evolu-
tionaryflywheelinproductionpairedwithanEOversioning
protocol that assigns explicit audit-chain validity scopes to
each EO version; (3)cross-scale and cross-domain vali-
dation—extending the benchmark to enterprise-scale on-
tologies and evaluating transfer across financial, HR, and
supply chain domains; (4)controlled ablation and latency
characterization—isolating architectural from training con-
tributionsviaaPhase2-ablatedfine-tunedbaseline,andpro-
filing event-processing latency under high-frequency event
streams.Togethertheseaxesconstitutetheengineeringpath
from the current graph-domain prototype to full ontology-
native enterprise AI.
References
[1] Anthropic, 2024. Claude 3 Model Card: October 2024 Addendum.
Technical Report. Anthropic. URL:https://www-files.anthropic.
com/production/images/Claude-3-Model-Card-October-Addendum.pdf.
technical report.
[2] Beltagy, I., Peters, M.E., Cohan, A., 2020. Longformer: The long-
document transformer. arXiv preprint arXiv:2004.05150 .
[3] Cai,Z.,Zhang,Y.,Gao,B.,Liu,Y.,Li,Y.,Liu,T.,Lu,K.,Xiong,W.,
Dong, Y., Hu, J., et al., 2024. Pyramidkv: Dynamic kv cache com-
pression based on pyramidal information funneling. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2406.02069 .
[4] Dai, Z., Yang, Z., Yang, Y., Carbonell, J.G., Le, Q., Salakhutdinov,
R.,2019. Transformer-xl:Attentivelanguagemodelsbeyondafixed-
length context, in: Proceedings of the 57th annual meeting of the
association for computational linguistics, pp. 2978–2988.
[5] Edge,D.,Trinh,H.,Cheng,N.,Bradley,J.,Chao,A.,Mody,A.,Truitt,
S., Metropolitansky, D., Ness, R.O., Larson, J., 2024. From local to
global:Agraphragapproachtoquery-focusedsummarization. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2404.16130 .
[6] Floratou,A.,Psallidas,F.,Zhao,F.,Deep,S.,Hagleither,G.,Tan,W.,
Cahoon, J., Alotaibi, R., Henkel, J., Singla, A., et al., 2024. Nl2sql is
a solved problem... not!, in: CIDR.
[7] Gao, D., Wang, H., Li, Y., Sun, X., Qian, Y., Ding, B., Zhou, J.,
2023.Text-to-sqlempoweredbylargelanguagemodels:Abenchmark
evaluation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.15363 .
[8] Hurst,A.,Lerer,A.,Goucher,A.P.,Perelman,A.,Ramesh,A.,Clark,
A., Ostrow, A., Welihinda, A., Hayes, A., Radford, A., et al., 2024.
Gpt-4o system card. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.21276 .
[9] Li, Y., Huang, Y., Yang, B., Venkitesh, B., Locatelli, A., Ye, H.,
Cai, T., Lewis, P., Chen, D., 2024. Snapkv: Llm knows what you
are looking for before generation. Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems 37, 22947–22970.
[10] Lin,Q.,Wen,M.,Peng,Q.,Nie,G.,Liao,J.,Wang,J.,Mo,X.,Zhou,
J.,Cheng,C.,Zhao,Y.,etal.,2024. Hammer:Robustfunction-calling
for on-device language models via function masking. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2410.04587 .
[11] Liu,W.,Huang,X.,Zeng,X.,Hao,X.,Yu,S.,Li,D.,Wang,S.,Gan,
W., Liu, Z., Yu, Y., et al., 2024. Toolace: Winning the points of llm
function calling. arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.00920 .
[12] Ma, S., Xu, C., Jiang, X., Li, M., Qu, H., Guo, J., 2024. Think-
on-graph 2.0: Deep and interpretable large language model rea-
soning with knowledge graph-guided retrieval. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2407.10805 .
[13] Mavromatis, C., Karypis, G., 2024. Gnn-rag: Graph neural retrieval
forlargelanguagemodelreasoning. arXivpreprintarXiv:2405.20139
.
[14] Pan,Z.,Wu,Q.,Jiang,H.,Xia,M.,Luo,X.,Zhang,J.,Lin,Q.,Rühle,
V.,Yang,Y.,Lin,C.Y.,etal.,2024. Llmlingua-2:Datadistillationfor
efficient and faithful task-agnostic prompt compression, in: Findings
of the Association for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2024, pp.
963–981.
[15] Patil, S.G., Mao, H., Yan, F., Ji, C.C.J., Suresh, V., Stoica, I., Gonza-
lez,J.E.,2025.Theberkeleyfunctioncallingleaderboard(bfcl):From
tool use to agentic evaluation of large language models, in: Forty-
second International Conference on Machine Learning.
[16] Qiao, S., Fang, R., Qiu, Z., Wang, X., Zhang, N., Jiang, Y., Xie,
P., Huang, F., Chen, H., 2024. Benchmarking agentic workflow
generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.07869 .
[17] Schick,T.,Dwivedi-Yu,J.,Dessì,R.,Raileanu,R.,Lomeli,M.,Ham-
bro,E.,Zettlemoyer,L.,Cancedda,N.,Scialom,T.,2023.Toolformer:
Language models can teach themselves to use tools. Advances in
neural information processing systems 36, 68539–68551.
[18] Team, G., Anil, R., Borgeaud, S., Alayrac, J.B., Yu, J., Soricut,
R., Schalkwyk, J., Dai, A.M., Hauth, A., Millican, K., et al., 2023.
Gemini:afamilyofhighlycapablemultimodalmodels.arXivpreprint
arXiv:2312.11805 .
[19] Team, G., Georgiev, P., Lei, V.I., Burnell, R., Bai, L., Gulati, A.,
Tanzer, G., Vincent, D., Pan, Z., Wang, S., et al., 2024. Gemini
1.5: Unlocking multimodal understanding across millions of tokens
of context. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.05530 .
[20] Xue, S., Jiang, C., Shi, W., Cheng, F., Chen, K., Yang, H., Zhang,
Z., He, J., Zhang, H., Wei, G., et al., 2023. Db-gpt: Empowering
database interactions with private large language models. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2312.17449 .
First Author et al.:Preprint submitted to ElsevierPage 14 of 21

[[page 15]]
[21] Yao, S., Shinn, N., Razavi, P., Narasimhan, K., 2024.𝑡𝑎𝑢-bench:
A benchmark for tool-agent-user interaction in real-world domains.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.12045 .
[22] Yao, S., Zhao, J., Yu, D., Du, N., Shafran, I., Narasimhan, K.R.,
Cao, Y., 2022. React: Synergizing reasoning and acting in language
models, in: The eleventh international conference on learning repre-
sentations.
[23] Zhang, J., Lan, T., Zhu, M., Liu, Z., Hoang, T.Q., Kokane, S., Yao,
W., Tan, J., Prabhakar, A., Chen, H., et al., 2025. xlam: A family
of large action models to empower ai agent systems, in: Proceedings
of the 2025 Conference of the Nations of the Americas Chapter
of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language
Technologies (Volume 1: Long Papers), pp. 11583–11597.
[24] Zhang, Y., Zhu, H., 2026. Construct, align, and reason: Large on-
tology models for enterprise knowledge management. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2602.00029 .
[25] Zhu, H., 2024. Node classification via semantic-structural
attention-enhanced graph convolutional networks. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2403.16033 .
[26] Zhu, H., 2026. Unifying ontology construction and semantic align-
ment for deterministic enterprise reasoning at scale .
[27] Zhu, H., Hu, W., Zeng, Y., 2019. Flexner: A flexible lstm-cnn
stack framework for named entity recognition, in: CCF International
ConferenceonNaturalLanguageProcessingandChineseComputing,
Springer. pp. 168–178.
[28] Zhu,H.,Li,Y.,Liu,L.,Tong,H.,Lin,Q.,Zhang,C.,2025. Retracted:
Pre-training graph autoencoder incorporating hierarchical topology
knowledge.
[29] Zhu,H.,Peng,H.,Lyu,Z.,Hou,L.,Li,J.,Xiao,J.,2023. Pre-training
languagemodelincorporatingdomain-specificheterogeneousknowl-
edge into a unified representation. Expert Systems with Applications
215, 119369.
[30] Zhu, H., Tiwari, P., Zhang, Y., Gupta, D., Alharbi, M., Nguyen,
T.G., Dehdashti, S., 2022. Switchnet: A modular neural network for
adaptive relation extraction. Computers and Electrical Engineering
104, 108445.
A. Ontology Harness Engineering: The LOM
Global Architecture
LOM-actionisonecomponentofalargersystemwhose
fullinstantiationissubjecttoongoingwork.Thissectionde-
scribesthecompleteLOMarchitecture—theintendeddesti-
nationtowardwhichLOM-actionisthefirststep—toclarify
both the scope of the vision and the engineering path from
the current graph-domain implementation to real enterprise
deployment. A foundational aspect of this architecture is
that LOM extends the ontological scope beyond what tra-
ditional ontology systems cover: where conventional ap-
proaches manage only entity-relation semantics and con-
straint conditions (the EO layer), LOM brings the skill
network, tool network, memory, and context graph under
thesameontology-managementparadigm—makingthefull
operational envelope of the system, not just its knowledge
base, ontologically governed and auditable.
A.1. The Engine-Harness Architecture Model
A.1.1. What a Harness Is and What It Is Not
An engine is not the same as a vehicle. An engine pro-
duces force; a vehicle converts that force into directed mo-
tion through a harness—a mechanical coupling that adapts
the engine’s output to the specific load, terrain, and task at
hand.Withouttheharness,enginepoweriswasted.Without
the engine, the harness has nothing to transmit. The harness
is therefore not a diminished version of the engine, nor a
container for it—it is thedynamic execution environment
that makes the engine’s power productive in a specific op-
erational context.
ThisdistinctionisfoundationaltounderstandingLOM’s
architectural role. The enterprise ontology is the engine: it
encodesthefullorganizationalauthorityoftheenterprise—
every entity, relation, constraint, authorization boundary,
and computation formula. Its power is real, but latent: the
ontology does not execute itself. LOM is the harness: it
creates the dynamic, executable environment in which the
ontology’s authority is coupled to live business tasks—
natural language inputs, streaming data events, multi-step
graph simulations, and auditable decision outputs.
The harness metaphor clarifies a common misidentifi-
cation. Practitioners accustomed to thinking of LLMs as
the primary reasoning engine tend to position the ontology
as a data source—something the modelconsults. This in-
verts the correct relationship. In enterprise AI, the ontology
governsthe model: every entity the model reasons about
must be EO-grounded, every constraint it enforces must be
EO-authorized, every computation it performs must satisfy
EO.Logic-Constraint. The model is not the engine; it is
part of the harness—the component that converts natural
language interaction into ontologically typed operations on
the enterprise ontology.
A.1.2. Harness Design Is Domain-Specific
The correct harness design is not universal—it is de-
termined by the domain’s productive task structure. Two
contrasting examples illustrate this clearly.
First Author et al.:Preprint submitted to ElsevierPage 15 of 21

[[page 16]]
AI coding harness (agentic long-horizon execution).
Whentheproductivetaskisautonomoussoftwaregeneration—
for example, building a complete ERP module from a
high-level specification—the engine is the model’s code
generation capability and the load is a long, multi-stage
development pipeline. The harness for this domain must
sustain thousands of model calls over hours or days: it
maintains a persistent execution environment (file system,
build tools, test runner, version control), routes model out-
puts to appropriate execution steps, captures feedback from
automated tests, and re-queues failed steps for retry. This is
along-horizon agentic harness: its defining characteristic
is that it keeps an autonomous agent productive across an
extended, largely unsupervised execution trajectory. The in-
frastructurecomplexityofthisharnessisjustifiedbythetask
structure—ataskthatgenuinelyrequiresautonomousmulti-
day execution cannot be replaced by a five-turn clarification
loop.
Ontology intelligence harness (enterprise semantic
execution).When the productive task is enterprise decision
derivation—approval routing, policy evaluation, resource
allocation, audit scheduling—the engine is the enterprise
ontology’s semantic authority and the load is a stream of
business events requiring scenario-grounded decisions. The
harness for this domain has a categorically different design
requirement:itmustnotsustainlongautonomousexecution,
but must insteadprecisely coupleeach incoming event to
the correct ontological scope, simulate the scenario in a
sandboxed graph copy, and derive a traceable decision from
the evolved graph state. The defining characteristic of this
harness isontological precision, not execution duration.
Five turns of human-in-the-loop clarification to correctly
ground an ambiguous entity reference is not a failure of
automation—it is the harness doing its job: ensuring that
every operation the ontology engine performs is performed
on the correct scope with the correct authorization.
A.1.3. The LOM Harness Design
LOM-action instantiates the ontology intelligence har-
nessthroughfourcoupledengineeringlayers,eachdesigned
to transmit a specific dimension of the ontology’s authority
into productive output.
Layer1:Intent-to-OntologyCoupling(HITL+Align-
ment).The first transmission point is the intent boundary:
converting a user’s natural language input or an arriving
dataeventintoafullyontology-groundedoperationrequest.
This layer runs the confidence-gated alignment function
Align(𝑞)→(𝑣,𝑐)overeveryentityandrelationintheinput.
Entities that clear the acceptance threshold are immediately
coupled to their EO.Standard-ID canonical nodes. Entities
that fall below threshold trigger a HITL clarification turn,
which is itself a harness operation: it surfaces the alignment
candidates, requests user confirmation, and re-runs the
alignment on the clarified input. The layer is complete only
whenallentitiesinthescenarioconditionsetarefullyEO-
grounded.Atthispoint—andonlyatthispoint—theharness
hassuccessfullycoupledtheincomingintenttotheontology
engine, and Phase 2 simulation may begin.
Layer 2: Scenario-to-Sandbox Coupling (Phase 2
Simulation).The second transmission point is the graph
boundary: materializing the ontology-authorized scenario
conditions as a concrete, mutated graph state in the iso-
lated sandbox. This layer executes the scenario program
produced by Phase 1 as a sequence of deterministic sand-
box operations (match_nodes,delete_nodes,create_edges,
update_edges).Eachoperationisitselfaharnesstransmission
act: it takes an EO-authorized constraint predicate and
converts it into a structural modification of the sandbox
graph copy, narrowing the reasoning substrate from the full
enterprise ontology to the scenario-valid subgraph𝐺. The
sandbox is the execution environment the harness provides;
the ontology’s constraint authority is what the sandbox
enforces.
Layer 3: Simulation-to-Skill Coupling (Phase 3 De-
cision Derivation).The third transmission point is the ca-
pability boundary: coupling the evolved sandbox state to
the registered skill that can derive the required decision
from it. This layer inspects the skill ontology registry for
nodes whose preconditions Pre(𝑠)are satisfied by the active
scenarioconditionsetandwhoseinputsignaturesmatchthe
current𝐺  state. In skill mode, the harness invokes the
matched skill against the sandbox—transmitting the ontol-
ogy’s structural authority into a deterministic computation
whose output is typed back into the EO namespace. In rea-
soning mode, when no registered skill matches, the harness
loads the attribute-pruned, event-fused𝐺 into context and
delegates to LOM’s own graph reasoning capability—the
harness’s fallback transmission path that ensures graceful
degradation rather than hard failure.
Layer 4: Decision-to-Evidence Coupling (SO Deci-
sion Trace).The fourth transmission point is the account-
ability boundary: converting every decision output into
an ontologically typed, fully replayable evidence artifact
whose operation sequence can be replayed by any auditor
against the original EO graph snapshot. This layer writes
thecompleteexecutiontrace—entityalignmentswithconfi-
dencescores,scenarioconditionsetwithEOprovenance,
Phase 2 sandbox mutation log, Phase 3 skill invocation and
result—tothesessionontologyasastructureddecisiontrace.
The evidence chain is the harness’s final output: it is not
a log file, but an ontologically governed artifact that any
auditorcanreplayagainsttheoriginalEOgraphsnapshotto
verify that the harness transmitted the ontology’s authority
correctly at every step.
A.1.4. Harness Quality Criterion
A harness is well-engineered when it transmits the en-
gine’s power with minimal loss and maximal precision. For
the ontology intelligence harness, this criterion translates
directly:
Every operation the LLM performs should be traceable
to an EO-authorized constraint, and no operation should
First Author et al.:Preprint submitted to ElsevierPage 16 of 21

[[page 17]]
reachtheLLMwithoutfirstpassingthroughtheappropriate
harness layer.
Violationsofthiscriterionmanifestintwocharacteristic
failuremodes.Ontologybypass:anoperationproceedswith-
out full EO grounding—an entity enters the sandbox unre-
solved, a scenario condition is drawn from model-internal
knowledge rather than EO authority, or a skill is invoked
without satisfying its EO-linked preconditions. The result
is a fluent but unauthorized decision: the engine’s power
was not transmitted through the harness, it leaked around
it.Ontology underuse: the harness is simplified to the point
whereEOauthorityistreatedasoptionalcontextratherthan
mandatory coupling—the ontology is consulted rather than
enforced. The result is a system that works in testing but
degradesinproductionasedgecasesexposethegapbetween
consultation and enforcement.
Bothfailuremodesaredetectedbythetool-chainF1met-
ric: an agent that produces correct answers without travers-
ing all four harness layers receives F1 penalties precisely
because it has bypassed one or more transmission points.
The illusive accuracy phenomenon—high Acc with near-
zero F1—is the empirical signature of ontology bypass at
scale: the model answers correctly, but the harness has not
transmitted the ontology’s authority into the decision.
A.2. The Extended Ontological Scope
Traditional enterprise ontology systems govern only the
EO layer: entity definitions, relation schemas, constraint
conditions,andaccesspolicies—thesemanticauthorityover
whatexistsandwhatispermitted.Thiscoverageisnecessary
but insufficient for a system that must also govern what can
bedone,howitisdone,andinwhatexecutioncontext.LOM
extends the ontological scope to six coupled layers, each
carryingadistinctgovernancefunctionyetallderivingtheir
authority from the EO foundation. These layers are orga-
nized byfunctional role—what each layer stores, declares,
or enforces—rather than by abstraction level; they form a
coupled ensemble, not a strict hierarchy.
Layer 1: Enterprise Ontology (EO).The permanent
semantic authority of the enterprise. It comprises five con-
straint families:EO.Standard-IDcanonical identifiers for
every entity and relation;EO business scenario conditions
encodingtheconstraintpredicatesthatrestrictaccessibleen-
tities and permissible operations;EO.Authorization-Model
governing which users may invoke which skills;EO.Logic-
Constraintspecifying exact computation formulas for met-
rics; andEO.Enumeration-Systemdefining legal value sets
for categorical attributes. The EO is read-only at inference
time and is never modified by any pipeline phase. It is
the engine whose authority all downstream layers transmit.
Every entity, relation, and constraint entering the reasoning
pipeline must be EO-grounded before simulation proceeds.
Layer 2: Bridge Layer Ontology.The semantic in-
terface between raw enterprise inputs and the EO. Rather
than recording operations (which Section A.4 covers), this
layer stores theartefactsthose operations produce: align-
ment mapping nodes pairing each surface expression with
its EO.Standard-ID canonical target; confidence-annotated
triple records carrying the alignment score𝑐∈ [0,1]
alongside the grounded(𝑠,𝑝,𝑜)triple; and HITL interaction
artefacts logging which candidate EO nodes were surfaced,
which was confirmed, and at what confidence threshold
resolutionwasachieved.Allartefactsaretypedbridge-layer
ontology nodes persisted in the SO for full provenance
acrosseveryentity-groundingdecisionthatprecedesPhase2
simulation.
Incross-domainenterprisedeployments,alignmentmap-
ping nodes are naturally expressed as OWL alignment ax-
ioms.owl:equivalentClassis appropriate for strict semantic
identity; when the correspondence is directional or subject
to drift,rdfs:subClassOfis the safer primitive, preserving
one-way inheritance without forcing bidirectional coupling.
Layer 3: Skill Ontology.The capability registry of
the harness. Every registered capability—deterministic tool
calls, computation engines, and delegated frontier-LLM
invocations—is declared as a typed node carrying formal
preconditions Pre(𝑠), postconditions, input/output type sig-
natures, and EO-linked authorization constraints. The skill
ontology is not a flat API registry: activation conditions
derive from EO graph traversal, invocation boundaries are
enforcedbyEO.Authorization-Model,andoutputsaretyped
back into the EO namespace.
This layer also encodesimplementation bindings: con-
cretetoolendpoints(ERPqueryinterfaces,documentwork-
flow triggers, approval-chain APIs, financial computation
services)arerepresentedasimplementationvariantsoftheir
parent capability nodes, with endpoint signatures, retry and
fallbackcontracts,dependencyrelationships,andversioning
metadata all traceable to EO authority. A single capabil-
ity node (e.g.,shortest_path) may admit multiple bindings
acrossruntimeenvironments;theharnessontology(Layer6)
governs which binding is active for a given session. LOM-
action’s19-functiongraphAPIsuiteisthecurrentinstantia-
tion of this layer.
Layer 4: Context Graph.The session-scoped, mutable
simulation substrate on which Phase 2 sandbox operations
and Phase 3 decision derivation execute. Every node and
edge in the context graph carries EO.Standard-ID prove-
nance; every mutation is a typed delta written under on-
tological governance. The context graph is not a free-form
scratchpad—it is an auditable extension of the EO knowl-
edge space, sandboxed to the current session viagraph_id
and constrained to the active scenario condition set.
Within the six-layer scope, it serves as thelive execution
surfaceof the EO: where the EO encodes permanent orga-
nizationalauthority,thecontextgraphencodesthescenario-
evolvedstateofthatauthorityforthecurrentbusinessevent.
Layer 5: Memory Ontology.Conversational memory
in LOM is an ontologically typed artefact, not raw text
history. The session ontology (SO) stores three artefact
classes:graphdeltas—typedtriplemutationsannotatedwith
EO node references and turn indices;turn logs—per-turn
execution traces recording active scenario conditions, exe-
cutionmode,andproduceddeltas;anddecisiontraces—the
First Author et al.:Preprint submitted to ElsevierPage 17 of 21

[[page 18]]
session’sprimarygovernancedeliverablespanningallturns.
All SO entries conform to the same ontological typing dis-
ciplineasEOentitiesandskillontologynodes,enablingEO
provenance to propagate transitively through every memory
artefact and making every recalled fact traceable to an au-
thoritative source.
Layer 6: Harness Ontology.The meta-governance
layer that manages the lifecycle of the execution environ-
ment itself: the sandbox session registry, the skill ontology
registry, the HITL clarification protocol, and the LOM-as-
Judge evaluation contract. The harness ontology encodes
which execution modes are admissible for which event
types,whichsandboxoperationsareauthorizedunderwhich
scenario conditions, and how the four transmission layers
(Section A.1.3) are sequenced and enforced. It is the layer
that makes LOM a harness rather than a wrapper: it does
not merely route calls through the ontology—it governs the
environment in which ontological authority is coupled to
everyexecutionstep.Critically,theharnessontologyisself-
governing: its schema is fixed at design time and does not
participate in the RAC evolutionary cycle (Section A.8),
avoiding an infinite regress in which the governance layer
would itself require a meta-governance layer.
Together, these six layers—EO, bridge layer ontology,
skillontology,contextgraph,memoryontology,andharness
ontology—constitutethefullLOMontologicalscope.Their
unification under a single ontology-management paradigm
makes LOM’s audit guaranteestransitive: an authorization
established at the entity level in Layer 1 propagates con-
sistently through skill activation (Layer 3), sandbox graph
mutation (Layer 4), memory persistence (Layer 5), and
execution governance (Layer 6), with every inference step
traceable to the same ontological authority. This transitivity
is what distinguishes a system that produces plausible out-
puts from one that produces auditable decisions.
A.3. The Three Ontological Stores
The EO layer is operationalized through three persistent
storeswithdistinctaccesssemantics.Togethertheyformthe
horse that drives all LOM reasoning; no inference proceeds
without grounding in one of them.
Enterprise ontology (EO) [global, read-only]is the
permanent semantic authority. It comprises five families of
constraintsandidentifiers,eachplayingaspecificroleinthe
CAR reasoning cycle: EO.Standard-ID provides canonical,
unique codes for every entity and relation; EO business
scenarioconditionsencodetheconstraintpredicatesthatre-
strict which entities are accessible and which operations are
permissible; EO.Authorization-Model governs which users
may invoke which skills; EO.Logic-Constraint specifies ex-
actcomputationformulasformetrics;andEO.Enumeration-
Systemdefinesthelegalvaluesetsforcategoricalattributes.
The EO is never modified at inference time. It is the horse.
Personalontology(PO)[per-user,read-only]isauser-
scoped semantic overlay that carries alias mappings, pre-
ferredmetriccalibrations,andfieldsuppressionpreferences.
POoperatesstrictlywithinEO.Authorization-Modelbound-
aries and never overrides any EO constraint.
Session ontology (SO) [per-session, read-write]is the
mutable simulation substrate for the current conversation.
It stores three artifact types: graph deltas (typed triple ad-
ditions and deletions annotated with the EO nodes they
reference and the execution mode that produced them); turn
logs (per-turn execution traces recording which scenario
conditions were active, which execution mode was used,
and which graph deltas were produced); and decision traces
(thefullaudittrailacrossallturns,constitutingthesession’s
primary governance deliverable).
A.4. Semantic Parsing and Ontological Alignment
A.4.1. Natural Language to Semantics
A foundational capability of LOM is the semantic pars-
ing layer that converts both user-facing natural language
queries and system-level business scenario conditions into
ontology triples—the universal currency of the LOM rea-
soningengine.Thisunificationisarchitecturallysignificant:
it means that user intent and organizational scenario con-
ditions are expressed in the same representation, enabling
them to be reasoned over jointly rather than reconciled at
the prompt level.
Eventandinputsemanticparsing.Auser’snaturallan-
guage input is parsed by the alignment function Align(𝑞)→
{(𝑠𝑖,𝑝𝑖,𝑜𝑖,𝑐𝑖)}, producing a set of typed ontology triples
(𝑠,𝑝,𝑜)where𝑠and𝑜areEO.Standard-ID-anchoredentities
orvaluesand𝑝isanEO-authorizedpredicate,eachcarrying
a confidence score𝑐𝑖∈[0,1].
Business scenario semantic parsing.Enterprise busi-
nessscenariosundergothesametriple-groundingprocess.A
scenario such as “only cost-center L2 nodes are traversable
for this user’s role” is not injected as a natural language
instructionintotheprompt;itisparsedintoconstrainttriples
and registered as activepredicates in the ontological
sessionstate.ThisiswhatmakesPhase2sandboxsimulation
a computation over triples rather than a pattern-matching
exercise over scenario text.
Precisesubgraphlocalizationthroughtripleground-
ing.Because both the event payload and the active scenario
condition set are expressed as ontology triples anchored to
EO.Standard-ID entities, subgraph localization reduces to a
well-definedgraphoperation:identifythesubgraph𝐺  that
satisfies all constraint triples fromand contains all entity
nodesreferencedbytheeventpayloadtriples.Thistriple-to-
subgraph mapping is exact and deterministic.
A.4.2. The LOM Interface Contract
The semantic parsing layer defines LOM’s external in-
terface contract. LOM is a bidirectional semantic trans-
ducer that accepts inputs and produces outputs in two rep-
resentationregisters—naturallanguageandformalontology
(OWL/triple notation)—independently on each side:
NL ||| OWL
LOM
← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← →NL||| OWL
First Author et al.:Preprint submitted to ElsevierPage 18 of 21

[[page 19]]
Table 6
Mapping of Input/Output Modalities and Use Cases
Input Output Typical Use Case
Natural Language Natural Language Business event or user request→human-readable decision with evidence narrative
Natural Language OWL / Triples Business event or user request→machine-readable ontology delta for downstream
systems
OWL / Triples Natural Language Formal scenario or graph state→explanation, audit report, clarification dialogue
OWL / Triples OWL / Triples System-to-system ontology enrichment, automated scenario verification, RAC-driven
EO update
This yields four canonical interaction modes, summa-
rized in Table 6:
A.5. The CAR–RAC Closed Loop: Forward
Execution and Evolutionary Feedback
LOM operates through a self-reinforcing closed loop
composed of two coupled cycles. CAR (Construct→Align
→Reason) is theforward pass: it transforms raw enterprise
data and incoming business events into auditable, onto-
logically grounded decisions. RAC (Reason→Align→
Construct) is thefeedback pass: it is the exact reverse of
CAR,scanningeveryforward-passoutputfororganizational
knowledge not yet formally represented in the EO and rout-
ingvalidatedcandidatesbackintotheontologyaspermanent
entries. Together they form a single governed flywheel—
each forward decision strengthens the ontological substrate
that future forward decisions depend on.
A.5.1. CAR: The Forward Execution Pipeline
CAR transforms raw enterprise inputs into auditable
decisions through three EO-constrained steps.
Constructis the autonomous ontology construction
step. Rather than requiring a hand-crafted schema, LOM
ingests raw enterprise data and autonomously identifies
entitytypes,relationtypes,constraintpredicates,andcanon-
icalidentifiers.EO.Enumeration-Systemconstrainsthelegal
value sets for categorical attributes discovered during con-
struction;EObusinessscenarioconditionsgovernwhichen-
tity classes and relation types are admissible for the current
organizationalscope.Theoutputisatypedontologicalgraph
whosenodesandedgescarryEO.Standard-IDprovenance—
the structural substrate on which all downstream alignment
and reasoning operate.
Alignperforms two coupled operations: dynamic on-
tology update and multimodal ontology–language align-
ment. On the update side, newly constructed ontological
elements are reconciled with the existing EO—resolving
synonym merges, deduplicating entities, and propagating
constraint inheritance—so the ontology remains consistent
as new data arrives. On the alignment side, a graph-aware
encoder bridges the structural ontology representation with
the natural language surface of user queries and business
events, mapping free-form language onto EO.Standard-ID-
anchored entities and EO-authorized predicates. The order-
ing within Align is architecturally enforced: EO constraints
are resolved first, PO preferences applied second—never
reversed. EO.Authorization-Model is the non-bypassable
arbiter for all entity access decisions.
Reasonexecutes deterministic inference over the con-
structedandalignedontologicaltopology,operatingonnode
attributes, relation types, and the constraint predicates es-
tablished in the preceding two steps. Every inference step
produces a confidence score written to the SO alongside
its result. Steps falling below the configurable confidence
threshold trigger the compliance gate: the system either
requests clarification, escalates to a registered top-tier LLM
skill, or issues a structured refusal—never silently con-
tinuing with a low-confidence inference. High-confidence
resultsarewrittentotheSOdecisiontracewithfullEOnode
provenance, forming the auditable output of the forward
pass.
A.5.2. RAC: The Evolutionary Feedback Pass
RAC runs as the reverse cycle after every CAR execu-
tion, closing the loop between deployment experience and
ontological knowledge.
Specifically, RAC scans the SO decision trace for enti-
ties, relations, metric names, and scenario patterns whose
confidencescoresexceedtheacceptancethresholdbutwhich
are not yet formally represented in the current EO. Each
suchelementiscapturedasatypedcandidatenodeannotated
withitsprovenance—theturnthatproducedit,theexecution
modeused,andtheSOdeltainwhichitappears—androuted
to a governance queue for enterprise knowledge manager
review.
Validated candidates are promoted to permanent EO
entriesviatheConstructstep,expandingthecanonicaliden-
tifiernamespaceandtighteningtheconstraintspace.Theup-
datedEOthenfeedsanewAlignpass,makingtheontology–
language alignment function more precise for future ses-
sions. This creates the flywheel property: high-quality for-
warddecisionsproducehigh-confidenceSOartefacts;high-
confidence artefacts surface well-evidenced EO candidates;
validated candidates sharpen the ontology that governs fu-
ture forward decisions.
Three properties of the RAC cycle are architecturally
significant. First,provenance preservation: every candidate
nodecarriesacompletelineage—whichsession,whichturn,
First Author et al.:Preprint submitted to ElsevierPage 19 of 21

[[page 20]]
which execution mode, which SO delta—so that any pro-
moted EO entry can be retrospectively audited against the
interaction that generated it. Second,governed promotion:
candidates never enter the EO autonomously; the human
governance review queue is a mandatory gate, ensuring
the ontology grows from deployment interactions through a
versioned, auditable process rather than through unchecked
modelinference.Third,gracefulexpansion:becausethehar-
nessontology(Layer6)isself-governingandexcludedfrom
the RAC cycle, the evolutionary flywheel cannot corrupt
its own governance mechanism—the loop is closed at the
knowledge layer, not at the control layer.
Theontologyisthehorse;RACensuresthehorsegrows
stronger with every ride without ever changing the rules by
which it is guided.
A.6. Ontological Gating and Authorization
Control
LOMenforcesatwo-stagesafetyenvelopearoundevery
reasoning pipeline execution. The first stage—ontological
injectionandconfidencegating—operatesattheinputbound-
ary, ensuring that no entity enters the pipeline without EO
grounding. The second stage—scenario and authorization
hard stops—operates throughout all CAR steps, halting
execution whenever an EO constraint is violated during
simulation or decision derivation. Together, they constitute
the harness’s non-bypassable correctness guarantee.
A.6.1. Ontological Injection and Confidence Gating
BeforeCARbegins,everyincominginputundergoeson-
tologicalinjection:thesystemresolvesentitiestoEO.Standard-
ID canonical codes—building on entity recognition foun-
dations established by neural sequence labeling architec-
tures[27]—validatesvaluesagainstEO.Enumeration-System,
injects applicable EO.Logic-Constraint into the semantic
representation, and surfaces PO alias preferences.
Each entity resolution produces a confidence score𝑐∈
[0,1]from the alignment function Align(𝑞)→(𝑣,𝑐). Three
thresholds govern what happens next. If𝑐≥𝜃 accept, the
entity is grounded and reasoning proceeds immediately. If
𝜃clarify ≤𝑐 < 𝜃 accept, a targeted clarification question is
generated and the pipeline is held until the user confirms or
correctsthecandidateEOnode.If𝑐 <𝜃 clarify,theexpression
is flagged as an ontology gap candidate: it is written to the
SOasatypedcandidatenodefortheRACevolutionarycycle
(Section A.8), and execution is suspended until the gap is
resolved.
This confidence-gated alignment ensures that no entity
entersthereasoningpipelineatbelow-thresholdprecision—
andthateverygroundingdecisionisitselfatyped,auditable
SO artefact with full EO provenance.
A.6.2. Scenario and Authorization Hard Stops
Three hard stops apply throughout all CAR steps, each
triggering an immediate, structured halt rather than a silent
degradation.
Stop1:Entitynon-existence(EO.Standard-IDnotfound).
The incoming event references an entity with no corre-
sponding EO node. Execution halts; a targeted clarification
citing the nearest ontological neighbours is returned to the
requester.
Stop 2: Permission violation(EO.Authorization-Model
check failed). The requested skill invocation or data access
falls outside the user’s authorized scope. Execution halts; a
structuredrefusalcitingthespecificpermissionboundaryis
returned—no partial result is written to the sandbox.
Stop 3: Calibration conflict(EO.Logic-Constraintmis-
match). The requested computation would apply a metric
calibration inconsistent with EO standards. Execution halts;
the conflict is surfaced for explicit resolution before any
numerical inference proceeds.
In all three cases, the halt itself writes a decision trace
entrytotheSO:failedqueriesarefullyauditable,notsilently
discarded. This means the audit trail is complete regardless
ofwhetherexecutionsucceedsorstops—apropertyessential
for regulated enterprise environments where the absence of
a decision carries as much compliance significance as the
decision itself.
A.7. From Reasoning to Action: LOM-action as
the Operative Extension of LOM
A.7.1. The Capability Progression: Reason→Act
LOM’sfoundationalcontributionisontologicallygrounded
reasoning: the CAR pipeline transforms raw enterprise
data into auditable decisions whose every inference step
is traceable to an EO-authorized constraint. LOM-action
extends this foundation along a single, precise axis—from
reasoning aboutthe enterprise ontology toacting uponit.
Thedistinctionisarchitectural,notmerelyfunctional.In
pure reasoning mode, LOM produces conclusions: it reads
the ontological graph, applies EO-encoded constraints, and
returns a grounded answer. In action mode, LOM-action
producesmutations: it receives a business event, simulates
its scenario conditions as deterministic graph operations in
anisolatedsandbox,andderivesadecisionexclusivelyfrom
the evolved graph state—a decision that is itself a typed,
replayable operation on the ontological substrate. The rea-
soningcapabilityisnotreplaced;itisextended.LOM-action
is LOM with an operative harness attached—a harness that
convertsontologicalauthorityintodirected,auditableaction
rather than grounded text.
This progression can be stated compactly as:
Construct→Align→Reason
⏟⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏟⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏟
LOM: grounded reasoning
harness
← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← ← →Simulate→Decide⏟⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏟⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏞⏟
LOM-action: operative extension
The CAR cycle produces the ontologically grounded
knowledge state that the harness requires as its input. The
harness—realized as the event→simulation→decision
pipeline described in Section 3—converts that state into
action: it instantiates an isolated sandbox, applies EO-
authorized scenario conditions as deterministic graph mu-
tations, and derives every downstream decision exclusively
First Author et al.:Preprint submitted to ElsevierPage 20 of 21

[[page 21]]
from the resulting simulation-valid graph𝐺 sim. Neither
half is sufficient alone. CAR without the harness produces
grounded reasoning with no operative output. The harness
without CAR produces sandbox mutations with no onto-
logical authority. LOM-action is their coupling: the point
at which enterprise knowledge becomes enterprise action.
A.7.2. The Onto OS Vision: An Ontological Operating
System for the Enterprise
Thesix-layerontologicalscope(SectionA.2),theCAR–
RACclosedloop(SectionA.6),andtheLOM-actionopera-
tive harness are not independent engineering contributions.
Theyarethreecomponentsofasinglelong-horizonarchitec-
turaltrajectorywhoseterminaldestinationisanOntological
Operating System—Onto OS.
An operating system governs a computational environ-
ment: it manages resources, enforces access control, sched-
ulesexecution,andprovidesastableinterfacethroughwhich
applications interact with hardware without requiring direct
hardware access. Onto OS applies this paradigm to enter-
prise knowledge and decision infrastructure. Its governed
resource is the enterprise ontology; its access control layer
is EO.Authorization-Model; its execution scheduler is the
harness ontology; its stable interface is the skill ontology
registry through which every capability—tool calls, LLM
invocations, computation engines—interacts with organiza-
tional authority without bypassing it.
Concretely, Onto OS is the system in which:
•Every business eventis an operating system call—a
structuredpayloadthatactivatesEO-encodedscenario
conditions, enters the simulation pipeline, and pro-
duces an auditable decision trace as its return value.
•EverycapabilityinvocationisanOS-mediatedsystem
call—a skill ontology node whose preconditions are
EO-grounded, whose execution is sandbox-isolated,
andwhoseoutputistypedbackintotheEOnamespace
before any downstream system receives it.
•Everyreasoningstepisagovernedprocess—scheduled
by the harness ontology, constrained by EO.Logic-
Constraint,andloggedtotheSOwithfullprovenance,
so that no inference executes outside the ontological
authority of the enterprise.
•The enterprise ontology itselfevolves continuously
throughtheRACflywheel—aversioned,governance-
gated process analogous to a kernel update: each
promotion expands the capability surface of the OS
while preserving the integrity guarantees of all prior
sessions.
Under Onto OS, the enterprise is not an information
source to be queried—it is a continuously operating event
environment whose data streams and business events arrive
asstructuredsystemcallsintotheontologicalpipeline.Each
incoming event activates EO-encoded scenario conditions,
enters the simulation sandbox, and exits as an auditable
decision trace—not a response to a human prompt, but a
governed operative output of the ontological runtime. The
frontier LLM is neither the engine nor the authority—it
is one registered capability among many, invoked under
EO authorization when no smaller LOM variant can cover
the required computation, evaluated by LOM-as-Judge be-
fore its output is typed back into the ontological substrate,
and never permitted to influence any downstream decision
outside the simulation boundary. Model scale becomes a
capability parameter, not an architectural dependency.
LOM-action is the first operative instantiation of this
vision. Its 19-function graph API suite, sandbox simulation
engine,dual-modeexecutionarchitecture,anddecisiontrace
infrastructure are the kernel primitives of Onto OS in their
current,graph-domainform.Thepathfromthisprototypeto
a full enterprise Onto OS runs through the four future work
axesidentifiedinSection5:SKILLS-standardintegrationto
replace natural-language scenario descriptions with formal
ontologicaldeclarations;RACgovernancehardeningtopro-
vide versioned audit-chain validity scopes; cross-scale and
cross-domainvalidationtodemonstratetransferbeyondsyn-
thetic graph ontologies; and latency characterization to es-
tablish event-throughput guarantees under production load.
Thearchitecturalclaimisprecise:trustworthyenterprise
AI is not a property of model scale—it is a property of
ontological governance. Onto OS is the environment in
which that governance is fully instantiated. LOM-action is
its first working component.
First Author et al.:Preprint submitted to ElsevierPage 21 of 21