[[page 1]]
Vol.:(0123456789)
KI - Künstliche Intelligenz (2025) 39:81–95 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s13218-024-00863-8
DISCUSSION
Large Process Models: A Vision for Business Process Management 
in the Age of Generative AI
Timotheus Kampik1  · Christian Warmuth1 · Adrian Rebmann1 · Ron Agam1 · Lukas N. P . Egger1 · Andreas Gerber1 · 
Johannes Hoffart1 · Jonas Kolk1 · Philipp Herzig1 · Gero Decker1 · Han van der Aa2 · Artem Polyvyanyy3 · 
Stefanie Rinderle‑Ma4 · Ingo Weber4,5 · Matthias Weidlich6
Received: 31 October 2023 / Accepted: 5 July 2024 / Published online: 26 July 2024 
© The Author(s) 2024
Abstract
The continued success of Large Language Models (LLMs) and other generative artificial intelligence approaches highlights the 
advantages that large information corpora can have over rigidly defined symbolic models, but also serves as a proof-point of the 
challenges that purely statistics-based approaches have in terms of safety and trustworthiness. As a framework for contextual-
izing the potential, as well as the limitations of LLMs and other foundation model-based technologies, we propose the concept 
of a Large Process Model (LPM) that combines the correlation power of LLMs with the analytical precision and reliability of 
knowledge-based systems and automated reasoning approaches. LPMs are envisioned to directly utilize the wealth of process 
management experience that experts have accumulated, as well as process performance data of organizations with diverse 
characteristics, e.g., regarding size, region, or industry. In this vision, the proposed LPM would enable organizations to receive 
context-specific (tailored) process and other business models, analytical deep-dives, and improvement recommendations. As 
such, it would allow to substantially decrease the time and effort required for business transformation, while also allowing for 
deeper, more impactful, and more actionable insights than previously possible. We argue that implementing an LPM is feasible, 
but also highlight limitations and research challenges that need to be solved to implement particular aspects of the LPM vision.
Keywords Business process management · Large language models · Generative artificial intelligence
1 Introduction
The recent success of transformer architectures has posi-
tioned Large Language Models (LLMs) at the frontier of 
artificial intelligence research and applications. The general 
idea of LLMs and other so-called foundation models is to 
use a large body of not explicitly labeled data for training, to 
then infer “statistically plausible” outputs (in a given modal-
ity, such as text or image), given an input. Promising appli-
cations of LLMs are emerging in the enterprise software 
industry; while general-purpose LLMs can already augment 
day-to-day knowledge work such as copywriting, specialized 
models are trained for domains such as software engineer -
ing [1 ] and finance [2 ]. However, as LLMs are statistics-
based tools that re-use large corpora of often poorly curated, 
human-generated text, their behavior is unpredictable, at 
times not desirable, and frequently illogical. This limits the 
applicability of (plain) LLMs in many business contexts. In 
particular in Business Process Management (BPM) and pro-
cess intelligence, where decisions have critical implications 
for business operations, the raw and astonishing correlation 
power of deep learning is insufficient as a standalone facili-
tator of reliable, trustworthy, and actionable intelligence. To 
facilitate intelligence with the aforementioned properties, an 
integration of LLMs (or more broadly, foundation model-
based approaches) with symbolic data management (such 
as knowledge graphs) and automated reasoning methods is 
required.
In this paper, we propose Large Process Models (LPMs)1 
as a central conceptual framework for software-supported 
BPM in the era of generative AI, with the overall objective 
to provide a balanced, feasibility-oriented discussion of the 
expected impact of foundation models on BPM software. We 
ground LPMs in the state-of-the-art of the two research areas 
Extended author information available on the last page of the article
1 Large process models are not to be confused with local process 
models (also typically abbreviated using the LPM acronym), which 
aim to describe behavior that frequently occurs in an event log that a 
process has generated in local, somewhat small patterns [3].

[[page 2]]
82 KI - Künstliche Intelligenz (2025) 39:81–95
(Sect. 2) to then provide a motivation for the LPM concept 
from different perspectives (Sect.  3). Drawing from exist-
ing research, we then assemble the LPM from both nascent 
and well-established components (Sect.  4). We discuss the 
application potential of LPMs (Sect.  5) and argue for their 
technical feasibility to a certain extent, while also highlight-
ing substantial risks and challenges from both academic and 
practical perspectives (Sect. 6). Finally, we discuss concepts 
related to LPMs, as well as LPMs beyond LLMs (Sect.  7), 
before we conclude the paper (Sect. 8).
2 Background
BPM is a professional discipline and research area that is 
concerned with ensuring that organizations run as desired 
and achieve their competitive and societal objectives. In the 
context of BPM, software plays an important role, as organi-
zations rely on it not only for the execution of processes, 
but also for process design and analysis. BPM as a research 
discipline, while multi-disciplinary, is often seen through the 
lens of applied computer science, e.g., in the context of foun-
dational approaches to process modeling [4] and data-driven 
process analysis (process mining) [5]. Here, “formal” mode-
ling languages, such as Petri nets, play a crucial role to facili-
tate reasoning and decision-making about processes. Tradi-
tionally, BPM as a field and, in particular, BPM software, 
rely on symbolic approaches to computer science, many of 
which are logic-based and may consequently be considered 
“good old fashioned” symbolic AI. For instance, the core of 
process mining is based on symbolic data management and 
temporal reasoning approaches.
With the advent of deep learning, BPM research has 
adjusted its course and increased the uptake of a variety of 
Machine Learning (ML) approaches. As a reaction to this 
trend, the BPM community has provided a vision of AI-
augmented BPM [6]. According to this envisioned approach, 
subsymbolic AI methods are not used to replace human or 
symbolic reasoning in crucial tasks, but rather to support 
human and machine decisions and actions, e.g., in order to 
facilitate human control with less effort, while still allowing 
for strong, symbolic guarantees. The ultimate goal of AI-
augmented BPM is making business processes “adaptable, 
proactive, explainable, and context-sensitive” [6 ]. Its two 
key elements, human-control and the integration of sym -
bolic (logic/reasoning-based) and subsymbolic (statistics/
learning-based) AI approaches are well-established research 
directions in the AI community: the fusion of symbolic and 
subsymbolic AI is well-known since the turn of the cen-
tury as neuro-symbolic AI [ 7] and is currently re-surging, 
for example in the context of knowledge graphs and the 
Semantic Web [8].
Recently, the rise of so-called generative AI, most nota-
bly enabled by the transformer neural network architec-
ture [9], has fueled new expectations regarding the applica-
tion potential of artificial intelligence, not least in business 
and BPM contexts. Most prominently, software products 
such as ChatGPT allow users to engage in dialogues with 
LLM-based systems that then produce statistically plausible 
content given a user’s request, based on the large corpora 
of content that the systems have been trained on. There is 
substantial interest regarding generative AI in BPM research, 
as well as in industry. For example, recent research provides 
first insights into the potential that generative AI has for 
process mining (in particular: query generation and direct 
question answering based on event logs [10]). Also, emerg-
ing research lines explore creating models of processes 
(process model generation [11] and task list extraction from 
text [12]), as well as related conceptual models such as 
Unified Modeling Language (UML) models [11, 13], and 
academic proposals for prompt engineering for BPM and 
enterprise modeling have been introduced [14, 15]. What 
is lacking so far is a holistic overview of how generative 
AI can facilitate BPM more broadly, and how a systematic 
perspective on the interplay with existing technologies can 
be developed.
3 Motivation
The concept of a large process model can be motivated from 
a dual perspective.
Intuitively, the increasing interest in LLMs in a broad 
range of domains calls for their holistic positioning in the 
context of BPM. Considering the prevalence of process mod-
els as tools for process analysis as well as execution artifacts, 
the term large process model can refer to the application 
of LLMs in order to produce models of processes in the 
broader sense.
However, beyond this simplistic analogy, we view “large 
process model” more literally as an alternative to the small, 
hard-wired, and specific process models that are used today 
(think of a BPMN 2 model and an associated DMN 3 rule 
base) that goes beyond the mere application of LLMs.
In Natural Language Processing (NLP), the term LLM 
refers to statistical models of natural language that, based 
on the large corpora of text data they have been trained on, 
predict next plausible tokens (basic units of text) given an 
input string [18]. Initially, LLMs applied relatively simple 
statistics-based approaches, which have been replaced by 
2 Business Process Model and Notation, an open standard for mod-
eling business processes [16].
3 Decision Model and Notation, an open standard for modeling busi-
ness rules [17].

[[page 3]]
83KI - Künstliche Intelligenz (2025) 39:81–95 
neural networks during the 2010s; today’s LLMs are typi-
cally Generative Pre-trained Transformers (GPT), utilizing 
the corresponding transformer neural network architecture 
that was specifically designed for NLP tasks (although it is 
more generally applicable). Predecessors of statistics-based 
NLP approaches such as the early LLMs were formal/logic-
based models of language. These symbolic models attempt 
to precisely define the meta-model of human language(s) and 
allow for the instantiation of these meta-models in particular 
contexts. However, considering the complex, nuanced, and 
dynamic nature of human language, logic-based language 
models are insufficient for handling most NLP tasks and are 
now assumed to be primarily applicable in conjunction with 
ML-based tools such as LLMs [19]. Analogously, BPM used 
to have a strong symbolic, model-driven focus, in particular 
in academia, which is reflected by classical textbooks on the 
topic [4, 20]. The assumption was that imperative process 
models allow business experts to specify how organizations 
run in a precisely defined and automatable manner, follow -
ing a model-driven development approach. In contrast, more 
permissive, declarative approaches to modeling business 
processes have not yet achieved mainstream maturity, pos-
sibly due to challenges regarding unified representation and 
user-friendliness of creating and managing models; this is 
evidenced by the relative lack of adoption of the CMMN 
standard,4 which at least some specialized vendors with deep 
expertise in the field regard as a failure.5
Even for imperative process models, and although a 
mature technology ecosystem of business process execu-
tion engines exists, the direct deployment of models for 
execution has remained a niche approach to process auto-
mation. An industry assumption is that the level of business 
experts’ technology literacy and maintenance effort required 
for model-driven development is so high that only very large 
and mature organizations can benefit from it, and typically 
only in the most business-critical parts of their operations; 
for others, standard software or traditional custom develop-
ment remain more viable. Thus, similarly to the natural lan-
guage case, the dream of a perfect symbolic model remains 
an ambition that is rarely achievable. The following two 
examples highlight this issue and exemplify two vastly dif-
ferent BPM scenarios (highly customized and largely stand-
ardized processes).
Compliance checking process capabilities for the finance 
domain. Large financial institutions typically want to be in 
full control of their business process specification and execu-
tion and hence apply model-driven development stacks with 
open source or self-built business process and rule execu-
tion engines, utilizing modeling notations such as BPMN 
and DMN.6 A key use case within the domain is ensuring 
regulatory compliance while maximizing business agility. 
However, the model and rule bases needed for executing the 
corresponding checks and integrating them into core busi-
ness operations are very large and the maintenance effort 
is immense. Symbolic models and rules are, even if cor -
rect from a “logical” perspective (object-level), prone to be 
dated, inconsistent, or incorrectly modeled from a domain 
perspective (meta-level). Hence, substantial human effort, 
as well as very particular expertise at the intersection of 
technology and the specific business domain, is required for 
maintenance and continuous improvement.
Generic purchase-to-pay process capabilities. Enterprise 
software vendors scale generic purchase-to-pay (procure-
ment) process capabilities across thousands of organizations 
using standard software. Changing and customizing the soft-
ware is often effortful and introduces risks of unintended 
side effects that need to be mitigated. Hence, the degree 
of customization needs to be a carefully deliberated trade-
off. Making the right decision about the scale and direction 
of customization requires digging into data and knowledge 
silos; the available data typically tells only a part of the 
story, and the most useful knowledge is typically distributed 
across different sources, hard to find, and not available in a 
machine interpretable format.
At the same time, the utilization of traditional statistics- 
and ML-based approaches (non-GPT methods) in a BPM 
context poses substantial challenges, in particular due to the 
following key issues:
– BPM is knowledge-intense and classical statistical infer-
ence approaches struggle with the utilization of organi-
zational knowledge, in particular considering that this 
knowledge is typically not available in a structured, well-
maintained and easy-to-process form.
– Deep learning approaches that require training neural net-
works from scratch are extremely costly to scale; train-
ing for a particular organizational context is often not 
feasible given that business processes typically drift with 
time, and continuous re-training is required.
– Reinforcement learning approaches that can potentially 
further systematize and partly automate the continu-
ous improvement of business processes [22] depend on 
knowledge for checks and balances. Learning by action 
comes at a cost, in particular in scenarios where the dis-
tribution of utility generated by rewards is time sensitive: 
in a BPM context, bad rewards tend to come in late, e.g., 
4 Case Management Model and Notation, an open standard for the 
declarative specification of business processes [21].
5 Cf. https:// camun da. com/ blog/ 2020/ 08/ how- cmmn- never- lived- up- 
to- its- poten tial/, accessed at 28-03-2024.
6 Notably, a well-known Wallstreet bank maintains their own DMN 
engine: https:// github. com/ goldm ansac hs/ jdmn (accessed at 28-03-
2023).

[[page 4]]
84 KI - Künstliche Intelligenz (2025) 39:81–95
in the long tail of process instances that eventually turn 
out to not terminate as intended.
Consequently, the collection of knowledge and data across 
processes, organizations, industry verticals, and process 
variants in an LPM in the broader sense can enable a sub -
stantial step forward: instead of relying on one specific, yet 
simplistic and incomplete model, all models are utilized to 
the extent they are useful in order to manage a particular 
process (or variant or instance thereof).
4 Large Process Models
To advance a holistic viewpoint on the technological foun -
dations of BPM software in the age of generative AI, we 
propose the concept of a Large Process Model (LPM).
An LPM is envisioned as a neuro-symbolic software sys-
tem that integrates process management knowledge accu -
mulated by experts and precise data on how organizations 
run their processes with generative AI approaches and sta -
tistical as well as symbolic inference methods, thus fusing 
process data and knowledge. Given process data in an event 
log or relational format, 7 the LPM automatically identi -
fies the domain of a specific process as well as the context 
of the organization that runs it, to then generate insights 
and action recommendations, using a collection of tools 
for process design, analysis, execution, and prediction. As 
organizational context, process data alone is sufficient, but 
additional information, e.g., in the form of process models 
or unstructured documents, can be automatically ingested in 
order to augment context-specific LPM capabilities. LPM 
knowledge is partially encoded in an LLM and partially 
managed as symbolic process atoms, which are models and 
query templates generated by an ensemble of deep learning 
techniques and special-purpose algorithms. Depending on 
the BPM task at hand, the LPM is instantiated from the gen-
eral framework presented. The implementation of the tasks 
is not necessarily hard-coded, but can be tackled more flex-
ibly utilizing agent-based approaches, i.e., reasoning loops 
that have been at the center of AI research for decades and 
are now to some extent applied in the context of LLMs [23, 
24].8
The LPM consists of the following key components 
(Fig. 1).
Process data and knowledge sources. Process data and 
knowledge is provided to train ML models, feed symbolic 
algorithms, and to serve humans directly. On the technol -
ogy side, structured knowledge is persisted in knowledge 
graphs (or is managed using other knowledge-based tech -
nologies) and, in the case of language embeddings, in vector 
stores; unstructured data is typically available in a multitude 
of formats, whereas tabular data is available in traditional 
relational databases. Note that here, we do not aim to uti -
lize knowledge graphs for the representation of event data, 
unlike recent process mining approaches [ 25], mostly due 
to scalability concerns; instead, the term knowledge graph 
can be understood as a pars pro toto for semantic technolo -
gies persisting process model knowledge. Conceptually, we 
can divide data and knowledge sources into generic knowl-
edge about a process or its application domain (industry 
Fig. 1 A conceptual architecture 
of an LPM
7 Additional data, such as survey data reporting on customer or 
employee satisfaction can be utilized; still, we assume that traditional 
tabular data representing process execution traces forms the core 
input for our data-driven inferences.
8 Let us note there that the way the notion of an “agent” is used in the 
context of LLMs is subject to community debate and that many of the 
nascent agent system proposals and prototypes do not yet make use of 
the comprehensive planning, reasoning, and (reinforcement) learning 
capabilities that have been devised over the last decades.

[[page 5]]
85KI - Künstliche Intelligenz (2025) 39:81–95 
vertical), customer and context-specific knowledge, and 
execution data. Here, knowledge is often distilled from data 
on a continuous basis, e.g., in the case of benchmarks. In 
order to utilize the content of heterogeneous knowledge 
sources, the LPM proposal features the notion of a process 
atom layer: process atoms are facts about a process (or rela-
tionships between facts) that are atomic in the sense that 
they cannot be split into smaller parts without losing their 
business meaning. For example, when checking the viola-
tion of the rule “only if the order amount exceeds $1000 
then an approval occurs”, the logical implication can be 
split into “smaller” propositions, but it makes little sense 
to do so from a business user perspective. Breaking down 
process knowledge into process atoms and mining process 
atoms from unstructured information or data closes the gap 
between the natural-language focus of LLMs and the need 
for representations that are executable, in particular as que-
ries on tabular process data and symbolic process knowl-
edge. Intuitively, process atoms can be considered equivalent 
to declarative process models or constraints, whose (inter -
active) discovery from event logs [26] and integration with 
imperative modeling languages such as BPMN [ 27] has 
already been studied by the scientific community and that 
can, for example, be sourced using LLMs for the purpose 
of detecting so-called semantic anomalies [28, 29], i.e., of 
behaviors that are unusual given the knowledge at hand and 
hence possibly undesirable.
Process fine-tuned LLM. Both structured knowledge and 
unstructured information are used to fine-tune an LLM. 
Notably, an LPM is not an LLM trained on domain-specific 
knowledge. For efficiency and flexibility, the assumption is 
that fine-tuning and contextualization in prompts is prefer -
able over training from scratch. Fine-tuning can take place 
across multiple dimensions. For example, an LLM may be 
fine-tuned for:
– process management in general: with specific terminol-
ogy and general knowledge about BPM;
– a particular process vertical;
– a specific region and its norms and regulations;
– a specific organization.
BPM tools and integration. Considering that BPM is, in 
many aspects, a precise discipline, in which properties such 
as reliability and trustworthiness play an important role, it 
would be naïve to assume that an LLM can fully replace 
existing tooling. For example, documentation on how pro-
cesses run must be interpretable and manageable in a sys-
tematic manner, and in most cases, process performance and 
conformance assessments must yield “hard” guarantees and 
not approximate guesses. Hence, an LPM must rely on clas-
sical process management tooling to combine the benefits of 
LLMs with the primarily symbolic data management-based 
classical BPM tools and algorithms, in particular for pro-
cess modeling, analyses, and execution, whereas predictive 
capabilities can be provided by statistics-based models (see 
below).
Run-time contextualization. The backbone of the afore-
mentioned tools is formed by process knowledge and process 
data query engines. These engines provide the basic “plumb-
ing” for enterprise-grade BPM, such as access control man-
agement capabilities, as well as interfaces for human users. 
Accordingly, the infrastructure for process knowledge and 
process data querying needs to be provided and augmented 
to work in interplay with LLM-based inferences. For exam-
ple, an LLM could generate plausible hypotheses about a 
process based on its execution data, and these hypotheses 
can then be tested in a rigorous manner using traditional 
symbolic and statistical inference algorithms.9 For predictive 
analysis and simulation, a collection of ML models is uti-
lized. Here, best-in-class models for a given task or ensem-
bles can be used. Given the success of foundation models 
in the domain of natural language processing, foundation 
models trained on business process execution traces may be 
a promising augmentation of more traditional ML models.
Inherent feedback mechanism with human in control. 
In order to ensure that the inferences drawn by the LPM 
are indeed useful, feedback mechanisms with the human in 
control are proposed. Feedback can either be provided fully 
by machines, e.g., by automatically determining, based on 
heuristics, whether a generated and executed query yields 
relevant results. However, in many cases, the final arbiter 
can be expected to be a human, who needs to be involved 
when designing process models, interpreting the business 
meaning of key performance indicators and other quanti-
tative insights, and approving the deployment of process 
changes to (enterprise) information systems. Accordingly, 
the feedback loop interpretation needs to support adequate 
technical feedback capabilities that enable reinforcement 
learning, but also consider human-computer-interaction fac-
tors to facilitate rational decision-making. The interactive 
feedback and inference loops can be orchestrated by light-
weight workflow engines or reasoning loop architectures; 
due to their stochasticity, we assume that LLMs do not play 
a role in orchestration.
The conceptual LPM architecture features the following 
iterative user-flow (also see Fig.  1), for either a machine or 
human user aiming to accomplish a BPM task. 10 
9 In general, the fusion of LLMs and knowledge-based approaches 
as described here is often referred to as retrieval-augmented genera-
tion [30].
10 Let us note that the focus of the LPM is on business process man-
agement i.e., on making sure an organization runs in a desirable man-
ner, and not on the execution of particular process instances on a 
case-by-case basis.

[[page 6]]
86 KI - Künstliche Intelligenz (2025) 39:81–95
1. Specify (BPM) goal. The user specifies the BPM goal 
they desire to achieve alongside boundary conditions. 
Such a goal can be relatively straightforward, as in “give 
me the most important configuration changes that help 
reduce cycle time in my order-to-cash process,” or it 
could be very ambitious, as in “change the order-to-cash 
process implementation so that the cycle time is reduced 
without negatively affecting other Key Performance 
Indicators (KPIs).” In case the goal is specified by a 
machine user, we expect that it is triggered by a context 
in which a human user is situated, e.g., from a control 
panel accessed by a human user, in which an order-to-
cash process with sub-par cycle time is summarized.
2. Consume recommendation or action. The specified 
goal is turned into a prompt, based on which the process 
fine-tuned LLM produces the desired content and trig-
gers queries to other subsystems. Upon query response, 
the initial prompt may be further refined, or additional 
queries may be generated. For example, the LPM may 
search for process variants for which the cycle time is 
particularly high to then identify potential root causes 
based on correlation analysis and textual knowledge; for 
this, repeated querying of the event log and evaluation 
of the returned query results are required.
3. Provide feedback. Based on the results returned by 
the LPM, feedback is provided, either by a human or a 
machine (the latter of which may also be an LPM com-
ponent). For example, if the process data query engine 
returns an empty set, this can be considered negative 
feedback in many contexts. Human feedback is neces -
sary in more nuanced cases, i.e., to provide context that 
does not exist within the boundaries of the purely techni-
cal system. Human feedback could assess some action 
recommendations as particularly useful, while marking 
others as false positives. For instance, in the context of 
a process change recommender system, a human expert 
may have a better overview of the social effects, risks, 
and costs of organizational change and assess some rec-
ommendations as not viable, because they are unlikely 
to affect meaningful process change or because carrying 
them out is too risky or too costly. The feedback can then 
be used to fine-tune the LLM, to generate labeled data, 
and to train more classical recommender systems that 
utilize reinforcement learning-based approaches such 
as contextual multi-armed bandits [31] to continuously 
improve the LPM.
5 How LPMs Can Facilitate BPM
Below, we provide an outline of how LPMs can facilitate 
BPM. We point to specific research results that provide 
additional context and preliminary or partial evidence of 
potential feasibility to then provide a more nuanced discus-
sion of feasibility in Sect. 6. 
1. Reduction of effort & expertise required for knowl-
edge-based BPM tasks. Managing business processes is 
knowledge-intense work, requiring both in-depth exper-
tise with respect to specific tools and skill sets, such 
as process modeling notations and process data query 
languages and access to and a good grasp of the knowl-
edge and data that exists about a particular process, typi-
cally in a highly complex organizational context. Hence, 
human BPM experts (individuals or teams) must have 
a high level of technical and socio-professional skills, 
as well as substantial experience within a particular 
organization: the entry bar for successfully running a 
BPM initiative is high. LPMs can lower this entry bar 
by (i) making it easier to find and automatically present 
information in the context in which it is useful and tai-
lored exactly to the user’s skill level and expertise; (ii) 
turning unstructured and semi-structured information 
into models and queries, thus requiring less detailed and 
formal knowledge of languages for process design and 
analysis; (iii) enriching and extending contextual process 
information based on logically inferred or statistically 
plausible facts. In the context of this broader objective, 
we envision, for example, the following specific LPM-
capabilities:
– Turning natural language text into process models 
and queries (of process models and data);
– Enhancing process models and queries based on 
natural language feedback;
– Recommending (changes to) process models and 
queries based on natural language context;
– Scaling generic insights derived from process data 
across organizations by auto-generating templates 
from commonly executed queries and instantiating 
them automatically in a given context.
 Here, we expect that the emerging notions of con-
versational process modeling [ 12] and conversational 
process mining, whose human-in-the-loop-level feasi-
bility is to some extent supported by recent research 
results [10, 12, 32] will become a reality and find their 
way into production-grade BPM software in an incre-
mental manner over the coming years.
2. Improvement of process observability. A key challenge 
in BPM is data handling; the key method exemplify -
ing this is process mining, which is widely considered a 
cornerstone of modern process analysis. Process mining 
uses event logs that have been extracted from enterprise 
systems as input data; these event logs are typically not 
readily available and generating them as the result of

[[page 7]]
87KI - Künstliche Intelligenz (2025) 39:81–95 
Extract-Transform-Load (ETL) pipelines is known to 
incur substantial efforts [33]. Even when event logs are 
generated, they only contain a small subset of the pro-
cess data that exists in an organization, e.g., because not 
all relevant IT systems can be accessed or because sub-
stantial parts of the process are executed through infor -
mal channels (and are hence not recorded in database 
tables). Also, interpreting what occurs in the event log 
is typically not trivial, for example, because the business 
meaning of events is not always clear, which increases 
the risk of misinterpretations. From an industry perspec-
tive, we summarize these challenges under the umbrella 
of process observability, which refers—somewhat 
analogously to data observability in distributed sys-
tems [34]—to the extent to which a process is correctly 
and completely observed and understood, given the 
(business) objective at hand. 11 We claim that process 
observability tends to remain relatively low when rely -
ing merely on one analysis method such as modeling or 
(event log-based) mining. By fusing knowledge and data 
from a wide variety of sources, the LPM can potentially 
increase process observability. For example, the follow-
ing LPM capabilities can potentially facilitate process 
observability:
– Turning vast amounts of unstructured, informal pro-
cess knowledge into actionable models and queries 
by setting up a pipeline that systematically searches 
through organizational knowledge silos 12; here, 
existing approaches to interactive process discovery 
that utilize domain knowledge can be employed [35, 
36], where the domain knowledge is then (partially) 
sourced using LLMs.
– Utilizing natural language information to discover 
data sources in large information system landscapes 
and to recommend ETL scripts/queries for extract-
ing relevant data, advancing and applying existing 
research on NLP for ETL [37];
– Enabling data-driven forecasting and analysis based 
on foundation models, avoiding the training of spe-
cific models for a specific organization’s process(es).
3. Convergence of process design, execution, and analy-
sis. Finally, the LPM may eventually help organizations 
advance towards truly continuous automated process 
improvement where process design, execution, and 
analysis converge. The idea of autonomous business 
process improvement has already been studied in-depth 
in the context of business process execution engines, 
which are augmented with reinforcement learning capa-
bilities that over time learn the best process variant for a 
given context [22]. This highlights the practicality of the 
general idea, albeit in an engineering setup resembling 
immaculate model-driven development that is typically 
not achievable in the context of real-life BPM deploy -
ments and implementations. In reality, process models 
are typically not deployed with the click of a button; 
instead, complex and knowledge-intense configuration 
workflows must be executed to finally trigger an update. 
More broadly, the challenge of turning process analysis 
outcomes into specific actions that change how a process 
runs is emerging as a key challenge in research [38] as 
well as in practice. By making knowledge readily avail-
able in a given context, the LPM can make these brittle 
and human work-intense configuration flows more agile 
and resilient. Also, if realized, better simulation and pre-
diction capabilities can substantially decrease the risk of 
deploying process changes. Here, we envision the fol-
lowing LPM capabilities, in the spirit of AI-augmented 
BPM [6] (for example):
– Matching process analysis insights to potential 
actions and their assumed consequences;
– Fusing data and knowledge to holistically assess the 
implications and risks of particular process change 
actions;
– Continuously assessing deployed process changes 
and fine-tuning them for optimal performance.
 Still, we claim that human control and oversight 
should always play a role in continuous process improve-
ment, to avoid that machines get stuck in local optima or 
optimize towards clearly undesirable process behavior.
The following example highlights the aforementioned three 
high-level potential benefits of LPMs. Consider a purchasing 
organization that is just getting started with business pro-
cess management and wants to adopt a data-driven approach 
right away. Process-level KPIs, extracted directly from the 
enterprise system’s relational database, have indicated that 
the process performs poorly in terms of cycle time; for 
an in-depth analysis, the application of process mining is 
required. Based on unstructured system documentation, 
the LPM suggests which tables to extract the data for the 
purchase-to-pay process from, recommending a configura-
tion of the ETL connector that merely needs minor adjust-
ments (Benefit 2). After the data is ingested, an automated 
data analysis is executed. The organization’s ERP system 
executing the process is highly customized and integrates 
with self-built sub-systems and services. Hence, there is 
11 For an informal introduction to process observability see: https:// 
blogs. sap. com/ 2022/ 09/ 16/ what- is- busin ess- proce ss- obser vabil ity- 
and- why- does- it- matter/, accessed at 28-03-2023.
12 This relates to the previous broad objective, but imagine a larger 
scale, as well as a more systematic approach.

[[page 8]]
88 KI - Künstliche Intelligenz (2025) 39:81–95
no exact reference process model that applies. Based on a 
large collection of (potential) reference process models, as 
well as based on organization-specific textual documenta-
tion, the LPM generates a set of queries for conformance 
checking, as well as for quantitative analyses, executes them, 
and ranks their results and basic business interpretation by 
relevance for the extracted event log (Benefit 1). For exam-
ple, the conformance check may show that maverick buying 
(purchasing without a requisition) occurs frequently, lead-
ing to increased time to process completion and compliance 
risks for purchase order amounts larger than 10,000$. The 
results are then linked to action recommendations, based on 
“historic” process management knowledge (Benefit 1), as 
well as data and models of other organizations’ purchase-
to-pay processes (Benefit 2). Finally, the most promising 
action recommendations are applied to the system configura-
tion, where they are (semi-automatically and carefully) first 
shadow-tested and then piloted, to be finally either discarded 
or fully applied to the entire production system (Benefit 3). 
In our maverick buying example, possible changes could be 
the addition of a pre-approval step for large order amounts, 
or the “hard” enforcement of the ordering of activities for 
all or some cases that exceed purchase order amounts of 
10,000$.
6 Feasibility and Challenges
We envision that LPMs will emerge in an iterative manner, 
which will help ensure that the capabilities provided live up 
to ethics, quality, and compliance expectations. Below, we 
provide a three-step outline of how LPMs can potentially 
evolve and mature. We start with capabilities that we con-
sider generally feasible given the state of the art (Step 1) and 
then move, via capabilities that pose substantial challenges 
whose solutions are still nascent (Step 2), to a “blue sky” 
vision that focuses more on what is intuitively desirable than 
on what is feasible (Step 3). At each step, we argue, based on 
the scientific literature, for the feasibility of the capabilities 
or the lack thereof and highlight some of the research chal-
lenges that we see.13
1. Augmenting modeling and analysis with contextual-
ized knowledge. The first step towards the LPM vision 
is the utilization of business process knowledge that 
would otherwise either not be findable or could not be 
structured in a way that allows for partially automated 
analysis with the human in the loop. Here, the two main 
capabilities are LLM-augmented process modeling 
and mining. Even before the emergence of LLMs and 
foundation models, a substantial line of research has 
focused on extracting process models from unstruc-
tured information and in particular text [12, 39–41] 
and, conversely, on turning symbolic process models 
into natural language-based artifacts [42]. These mod-
els can be either imperative, like classical BPMN mod-
els, or declarative, like constraint-based queries that are 
executed on an event log, e.g., for conformance check -
ing purposes. Furthermore, several works have started 
to exploit large collections of process models with the 
aim of capturing a general understanding of how pro-
cesses should be modeled or operated, with the aims 
of detecting deviating process instances [28, 29] and 
providing process modeling suggestions [43]. Using 
LLMs, approaches to facilitating knowledge genera-
tion and maintenance, turning unstructured knowledge 
into executable specifications and queries, and tailoring 
these specifications and queries to a particular process 
context can be expected to become more effective and 
easier to implement. Hence, the application of LLMs to 
this end can be considered feasible and is expected to 
substantially impact BPM software in the near future. 
We also expect that the coming years of research and 
development will answer many nuanced open questions 
around LPM-augmented modeling and analysis capabili-
ties, in particular about the interplay of auto-generated 
and hand-crafted symbolic models and meta-models, 
and the extent to which the importance of imperative 
models will decrease in favor of collections of declara-
tive constraints that can be auto-tailored and assembled 
for modeling and analysis on demand, given the current 
context. Considering the prevalence of structured and 
unstructured process knowledge, e.g., in the form of the 
thousands of process models a single organization may 
own and the tens of thousands of process models that 
enterprise system vendors have at their hands, we expect 
that sufficient high-quality data exists to “process fine-
tune” LLMs for generic and (if worth the cost) organ-
ization-specific BPM tasks and to provide high-value 
retrieval-augmented generation capabilities. Challenges. 
Given the short- to medium-term feasibility of Step 1, 
we assume that the key challenges that surround this step 
are of engineering nature. In particular, we consider the 
following challenges worth addressing: (i) define rigid 
evaluation metrics for the generative AI-supported 
generation of process models and queries; (ii) specify 
and evaluate LLM-friendly data exchange formats that 
serve as “middle-layer” representation formats between 
symbolic and sub-symbolic sub-systems; (iii) assess the 
potential of fine-tuning LLMs for process model and 
query generation, as well as the potential of alternative 
or complementary approaches such as retrieval-aug-
mented generation.
13 Obviously, the list of research challenges is non-exhaustive, i.e., it 
can serve as an opinionated starting point.

[[page 9]]
89KI - Künstliche Intelligenz (2025) 39:81–95 
2. Fusing unstructured and tabular data for actionable 
insights. The previous step establishes the LPM as an 
augmentation of BPM, without changing BPM funda-
mentals. This step aims at utilizing the LPM to advance 
the frontier of business process analytics, particularly 
towards simulation and prediction. These capabilities 
have been the subject of comprehensive scientific stud-
ies and often utilize deep learning approaches. Neural 
network-based anomaly detection can allow organiza -
tions to infer actions that fix the identified anomalies, 
thus improving process performance [44]. Also, pre-
dictive monitoring approaches for business processes 
often utilize deep learning to predict future activities 
or outcomes, or to classify cases [45]. Some simulation 
approaches utilize deep learning for generating more 
realistic business process simulation models, thus facili-
tating process improvements by enabling counterfactual 
(“what-if”) analyses [46]. Finally, recent research even 
investigates the data-driven forecasting of entire process 
models [47]. Despite these substantial research efforts, 
business process prediction and simulation tools are 
rarely applied at scale in industry and typically remain 
tools for basic exploration and not for high-impact anal-
ysis. Among the reasons for this are engineering chal-
lenges related to the training and re-training of highly 
specific (i.e., organization- and process-specific) models 
at scale, the lack of holistic context in most event logs, 
the dynamism of business environments, and—in the 
case of hybrid approaches such as process model-gen-
eration with deep learning—the inability of traditional, 
symbolic process models to capture socio-organizational 
nuances. Utilizing foundation models can potentially 
both address the problem of lacking contextual knowl-
edge by extracting this knowledge from unstructured or 
hard-to-search sources, and provide alternatives to simu-
lation and prediction based on highly specific supervised 
training, by instead training foundation models on pro-
cess execution traces that may be able to generalize sim-
ulation and prediction across process and organizational 
context (to a certain extent). However, due to the lack 
of research that systematically evaluates the potential of 
generative AI and foundation models in the aforemen-
tioned directions, feasibility remains an open question. 
Challenges. Our assessment is that Step 2 requires the 
establishment of foundations that either already exist 
somewhat analogously for Step 1 or that require a para-
digm shift to facilitate fusing unstructured information 
and tabular data for insight generation. More specifi-
cally, we call for: (i) establishing the conceptual foun -
dations of conversational process mining, as well as of 
new, more applicable process simulation paradigms; 
(ii) devising and implementing approaches for eliciting 
serializable hypotheses about tabular data from unstruc-
tured information and informal knowledge; (iii) design-
ing, implementing, and evaluating algorithms that allow 
for the evaluation of the aforementioned hypothesis in a 
scalable manner.
3. Automating continuous improvement with the human 
in control. As the ultimate, long-term objective, LPMs 
can enable the automation of the BPM life-cycle—
i.e., the continuous loop of process design, execution, 
analysis, and improvement—with human involvement 
only for enabling full social control for key decision-
making. The question of whether this is, at all or to a 
certain extent, possible remains open. Research on the 
(full) automation of the entire BPM lifecycle is scarce. 
A notable line of work has proposed and evaluated the 
use of Developer Operations (DevOps) principles and 
practices in conjunction with reinforcement learning to 
this end [ 22]. Here, the use of contextual multi-armed 
bandits is proposed to route process instances to the best 
possible process variant (configuration) given the par -
ticular case context. With time, the contextual routing 
behavior is expected to converge, which can then trigger 
a final process change analogously to a change based 
on a classical A/B test. The approach can be extended, 
to feature so-called shadow testing that routes cases, in 
parallel to their actual execution, through hypothetical 
process variants, relying as much as possible on real-
world properties and behavior and utilizing simulation 
only where necessary [ 48]. Shadow testing can then 
be used to narrow down the change candidates that are 
sufficiently promising for pilot tests. The approach can 
be extended further to allow for human intervention, 
thus reducing the risk of unreasonable machine deci-
sions given context that is available to a human expert 
but not to the machine [49, 50]. From an industry per -
spective, the proposed approaches are very ambitious, 
as they require substantial flexibility and agility in the 
configuration of complex enterprise systems and pri-
marily rely on process performance data when making 
decisions about process changes. Foundation models 
can potentially allow for fusing insights based on execu-
tion data with structured and unstructured knowledge, 
while also maintaining a reinforcement learning-like 
feedback loop that continuously re-evaluates generated 
insights and actions. Beyond that, LPMs can also help 
utilize data from poorly structured (sub-)processes; for 
example, many hiring processes mostly take place on a 
social level and leave a trace of textual information that 
is difficult to analyze with traditional process mining 
approaches; this leaves a gap that LLM-augmented busi-
ness process analytic can potentially fill. Hence, LPMs 
as bridges between data-driven, knowledge-intense, 
and social decision-making may enable a leap forward 
to more machine autonomy on the level of the BPM

[[page 10]]
90 KI - Künstliche Intelligenz (2025) 39:81–95
life-cycle. However, considering the scarcity of related 
research, general feasibility remains an open question, 
in particular when considering complexity in the context 
of traditional enterprise systems (time between action 
and effect as well as the size of the action-space), as 
well as reliability and compliance requirements for high 
impact process changes. Challenges. Because Step 3 
requires the fusion of management and execution, both 
on a technical and organizational level, we consider it 
substantially more challenging than Step 2, which is 
largely independent from execution systems. In addition, 
we assume that dynamic process adjustment to specific 
organizational context will, for the foreseeable future, 
always require a trade-off with standardization, e.g., to 
reign in the costs and risks associated with organiza-
tional complexity. Accordingly, we pose challenges in 
the form of the following questions: (i) how can enter -
prise software, beyond process execution engines, be 
designed for maximal flexibility and modularity on the 
knowledge level, such that desired changes to a process 
or process variant can be deployed with minimal human 
involvement? (ii) how do the fundamental requirements 
to analysis-oriented BPM software (e.g., to process 
mining software) change when the software becomes a 
mission-critical component of execution systems? (iii) 
how can guardrails for (somewhat) autonomous pro-
cess execution systems be defined and their compliance 
ensured, so that standardization versus tailored optimi-
zation trade-offs can be shifted from the former towards 
the latter?
Feasibility challenges that are orthogonal to the three steps 
above relate to data management, reliability & compliance, 
and interaction of human and machine decision-making:
– The LPM consumes data from a broad range of sources 
and processes it in various ways so that it can be used 
efficiently by humans and machines in the BPM lifecy -
cle. Integrating with external data sources and manag-
ing the ingested and generated data is a key challenge, 
particularly because LLM-generated data and knowledge 
may be of questionable quality and require substantial 
curation, either by more reliable machines or humans. 
Hence, one risk of the LPM proposal and similar deploy-
ments of generative AI is that the well-known problems 
pertaining to data management and BPM (arguably most 
pronounced in the context of ETL pipelines in process 
mining [33]) will be further exacerbated, thus requiring 
innovation in the sub-field of process querying meth-
ods [51]. The aforementioned data management chal-
lenges are generally well-known in applied AI research 
and have led to the emergence of data-centric AI—an 
engineering paradigm that focuses on data management 
and data pipelines as key foundations of ML-based appli-
cations [52].
– LLMs are frequently criticized for the lack of reliabil-
ity of the output they produce and have been described 
by experts as stochastic parrots  [53] and bullshit gen -
erators.14 Hence, it is crucial that insights and actions 
inferred by LLMs and other deep learning models are 
automatically assessed regarding their reliability and 
their business and societal implications, such as fair -
ness [55]. Beyond that, a key issue is that the ingestion 
of further content will increase the ethics and compliance 
risk of personal information leakage, a problem that has 
recently sparked substantial research interest in the con-
text of process mining [56, 57]. Potential ethics and pri-
vacy issues go hand-in-hand with requirements to ensure 
legal compliance, which traditionally is a challenge that 
BPM aims to address [58] and not to exacerbate.
– Even if the inferences drawn by the LPM (or: an underly-
ing LLM) are technically verifiable, they may still pose 
challenges to human decision-making. For example, 
a query or process configuration specification may be 
technically correct and human-interpretable but require 
substantial cognitive effort to make sense of; if the LPM 
then recommends the execution of the query or specifica-
tion to a human user, the user may trigger the execution 
without carefully checking, not detecting flaws that could 
have been identified only with human knowledge that 
is not maintained on a purely technical level. The more 
severe the consequence of an action recommended or 
influenced by an LPM is, the more important it is that 
human experts carefully deliberate the action’s implica-
tions before executing or triggering it. Here, concepts 
from behavioral psychology such as choice architec-
ture [59] that study how human decision-making is influ-
enced by contextual information can be utilized, which 
have already been adopted by the information systems 
realm [60].
– The limits of economic feasibility of LLM (and more 
broadly: foundation model) training, operation, and 
maintenance are a moving frontier. It is well-known that 
foundation model training, and hence also full-blown 
updates of foundation models, are very costly (in the 
millions of USD). Even drawing inferences from pre-
trained models can incur substantial costs, surpassing 
the costs of operating traditional symbolic or statistical 
inference systems. Hence, for each application of foun-
14 See: https:// www. aisna keoil. com/p/ chatg pt- is-a- bulls hit- gener ator- 
but, accessed at 28-03-2023 Technically, bullshit is a statement that 
is uttered by an agent with indifference to the statement’s truth [54].

[[page 11]]
91KI - Künstliche Intelligenz (2025) 39:81–95 
dation models (and, as a consequence, of LPMs) it is 
crucial to assess whether the costs exceed the benefits 
and whether alternative technologies may achieve bet-
ter scores in a cost/benefit calculation. For example, in 
some use cases, utilizing the smaller pre-trained natural 
language processing models of popular Python libraries 
for semantic similarity matching may make more sense 
than relying on a more costly fine-tuned LLM, which 
always entails a lock-in to the specific LLM architecture/
model. A compromise between the two options may be 
a powerful general-purpose LLM that heavily relies on 
retrieval augmented-generation, thus utilizing the poten-
tial of existing knowledge-based systems. Beyond that, 
deploying smaller models that are trained based on feed-
back from very large models has emerged as a promising 
research direction [61], which could potentially facilitate 
the more cost-efficient use of foundation models.
In all three cases, the challenges are reasonably feasible to 
address for Step 1: here, the generation of symbolic knowl-
edge (i.e., models and queries) can be managed using well-
established data- and knowledge-base technologies, is verifi-
able, and can be wrapped into user-friendly abstractions in 
relatively straightforward and well-understood procedures. 
In contrast, both Step 2 and Step 3 pose substantial chal-
lenges regarding the management of ML models, such as a 
potential process execution traces-based foundation model, 
as well as regarding the variability of results such as predic-
tions and action recommendations.
7 Discussion
This section relates the proposal to other visions and over -
views of generative AI and BPM and briefly discusses BPM 
and generative AI for modalities other than text.
7.1 Related Concepts
Considering the current hype around LLMs and genera-
tive AI, conceptual proposals and implementations for the 
domain-specific use of LLMs emerge at a fast pace. One 
prominent example is the development of BloombergGPT, 
a special-purpose LLM trained specifically for the finance 
domain [2 ]. Unsurprisingly, the first comprehensive pro-
posals for fusing BPM and LLMs have emerged as well. 
Notably, Vidgof et al. lay out a vision and research agenda 
for LLMs and BPM [62]; their work is primarily aligned 
with the BPM life-cycle, i.e., we claim that it provides a 
management view on LLMs for BPM, whereas our perspec-
tive is feasibility-oriented. Beheshti et al. propose Process-
GPT [63], a transformer-based approach for recommend-
ing next actions in knowledge-intensive processes during 
execution.15 Analogously to BloombergGPT, ProcessGPT 
is envisioned as a special-purpose GPT, trained from scratch 
with domain-specific data. Hence, the difference to our LPM 
proposal is two-fold: (i) our scope is broader, encompass-
ing the entire BPM life-cycle and (ii) we do not primarily 
propose training a GPT from scratch, under the assumption 
that the costs out-weigh the benefits and that fine-tuning 
and prompt-based contextualization are better means for 
reaching the same objective in the context of large language 
models. While training foundation models on process data 
for prediction and counterfactual simulation purposes is part 
of the LPM research agenda, the general feasibility of LPMs 
as a broader approach is not dependent on the feasibility of 
this particular potential capability. Focusing on process data 
analysis, Berti and Qafari [64] propose approaches for utiliz-
ing off-the-shelf LLMs for process mining, in particular for 
directly answering user queries and for generating symbolic 
queries on process data. The proposals are supported by 
preliminary experiments, providing evidence of feasibility. 
Given the (smaller) scope of the paper by Berti and Qafari, 
we consider the approach proposed in their work as a subset 
of the capabilities of what LPMs can offer, providing first 
and partial evidence for LPM feasibility. Similarly, we see 
the works by Klievtsova et al. [12] and Grohs et al. [32] as 
conceptual and experimental starting points for LPMs for 
process modeling. Here, we can again highlight that what 
is still missing are experimental works that provide solid 
evidence for the effectiveness of LLMs in a process execu-
tion context.
7.2 Generative AI for BPM Beyond LLMs
The LPM proposal and its LLM analogy place text-based 
generative AI into the center of attention. Beyond this, 
foundation models specifically trained on process execution 
traces may be utilized by the LPM for prediction and simu-
lation. Obviously, other modalities such as image, video, 
and sound are relevant as well. For example, process mod-
els are often created as part of notorious slide decks, mak -
ing it harder to govern the models and utilize them for data 
analysis. To make it easier to move from images to formal 
process model representations, recent research introduces 
a deep learning-based approach to turn images of process 
flow into standard-compliant (XML-based) BPMN [65]. In 
this context, one could imagine that generative AI can be 
applied, if not directly as image processors, then as post-
processors of the XML output. Also, generative AI mod-
els could potentially be applied to automatically generate 
15 Note that we consider one of the proposed use cases—automated 
exam grading and plagiarism detection—to be highly questionable 
from ethics and feasibility perspectives.

[[page 12]]
92 KI - Künstliche Intelligenz (2025) 39:81–95
insights, such as models and database queries, from large 
amounts of collected audio data, such as from expert inter -
views or customer conversations. However, here it is again 
not clear whether the additional modality (sound) is best to 
be processed directly by a foundation model; pre-processing 
with an off-the-shelf speech-to-text processor may be more 
feasible and easier to deploy.
In conclusion, it must be noted that our LPM vision is 
primarily presented with regard to the current state of BPM 
and business processes considering the ongoing discussion 
about how generative AI can be generally applied in busi-
ness processes. However, it remains uncertain how, or even 
if, generative AI will bring about fundamental changes in 
BPM practices or business processes that require fundamen-
tal changes in BPM approaches, such as the BPM lifecycle, 
from a management perspective.
8 Conclusion
In this paper, we have introduced the notion of a Large Pro-
cess Model (LPM) that allows for the automated inference 
of insights and actions with respect to a specific process 
in a given organizational context based on a large and het-
erogeneous collection of data and knowledge about many 
processes across many organizational contexts, with the 
goal of facilitating BPM now and in the future in light of 
advancements in generative AI. While our LPM utilizes 
a (foundation model-based) LLM and potentially process 
execution data-specific foundation models, we see the LPM 
as a fusion of generative AI and traditional symbolic and 
statistical approaches to automating reasoning and decision-
making in BPM. We assess the application of process fine-
tuned general purpose LLMs as contextualizers, generators, 
and augmenters of symbolic models and queries as feasible 
and as substantial facilitators of BPM. Here, we expect a 
substantial industry impact over the next years. Beyond that, 
we view the usage of special-purpose foundation models for 
BPM, in particular based on process execution traces, as a 
promising research frontier but as too nascent to warrant 
predictions of large-scale industry deployments. Further, 
the application of generative AI for automating larger parts 
of the BPM life-cycle is potentially interesting as well, but 
poses substantial feasibility challenges and business/societal 
risks that require extensive research and validation before a 
potential deployment is viable.
Acknowledgements The authors would like to thank the numerous 
colleagues in academia and industry who work on the application of 
LLMs and generative AI and whose work has influenced the perspec-
tive provided in this paper.
Declarations 
Conflict of interest All authors with a non-academic affiliation work 
for a company that builds business process management software.
Open Access This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attri-
bution 4.0 International License, which permits use, sharing, adapta-
tion, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long 
as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, 
provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if changes 
were made. The images or other third party material in this article are 
included in the article's Creative Commons licence, unless indicated 
otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in 
the article's Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not 
permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will 
need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a 
copy of this licence, visit http:// creat iveco mmons. org/ licen ses/ by/4. 0/.
References
 1. Nguyen N, Nadi S (2022) An empirical evaluation of github copi-
lot’s code suggestions. In: Proceedings of the 19th International 
Conference on Mining Software Repositories, MSR ’22, p. 1–5. 
Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA. 
https:// doi. org/ 10. 1145/ 35248 42. 35284 70
 2. Wu S, Irsoy O, Lu S, Dabravolski V, Dredze M, Gehrmann S, 
Kambadur P, Rosenberg DS, Mann G (2023) Bloomberggpt: A 
large language model for finance. CoRR abs/2303.17564. doi: 
https:// doi. org/ 10. 48550/ ARXIV. 2303. 17564
 3. Tax N, Sidorova N, Haakma R, van der Aalst WM (2016) Min-
ing local process models. J Innov Digital Ecosyst 3(2):183–196. 
https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jides. 2016. 11. 001
 4. Weske M (2019) Business process management - concepts, lan-
guages, architectures, 3rd edn. Springer, Berlin. https:// doi. org/ 
10. 1007/ 978-3- 662- 59432-2
 5. van der Aalst W (2016) Data science in action. Springer, Berlin. 
https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/ 978-3- 662- 49851-4_1
 6. Dumas M, Fournier F, Limonad L, Marrella A, Montali M, Rehse 
JR, Accorsi R, Calvanese D, De Giacomo G, Fahland D, Gal A, 
La Rosa M, Völzer H, Weber I (2023) AI-augmented business 
process management systems: a research manifesto. ACM Trans 
Manag Inf Syst (TMIS) 14(1):1–19. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1145/ 35760 
47
 7. Garcez ASD, Broda K, Gabbay DM (2002) Neural-symbolic 
learning systems: foundations and applications. Springer, London
 8. Breit A, Waltersdorfer L, Ekaputra FJ, Sabou M, Ekelhart A, Iana 
A, Paulheim H, Portisch J, Revenko A, Teije AT, Van Harmelen 
F (2023) Combining machine learning and semantic web: a sys-
tematic mapping study. ACM Comput Surv 55(14s):313. https:// 
doi. org/ 10. 1145/ 35861 63
 9. Vaswani A, Shazeer N, Parmar N, Uszkoreit J, Jones L, Gomez 
AN, Kaiser L, Polosukhin I (2017) Attention is all you need. 
In: Guyon I, von Luxburg U, Bengio S, Wallach HM, Fergus R, 
Vishwanathan SVN, Garnett R (eds.) Advances in Neural Infor -
mation Processing Systems 30: Annual Conference on Neural 
Information Processing Systems 2017, December 4–9, 2017, Long 
Beach, CA, USA, pp. 5998–6008
 10. Berti A, Schuster D, van der Aalst WMP (2023) Abstractions, 
scenarios, and prompt definitions for process mining with llms: A 
case study. In: Weerdt JD, Pufahl L (eds.) Business Process Man-
agement Workshops - BPM 2023 International Workshops, Utre-
cht, The Netherlands, September 11–15, 2023, Revised Selected

[[page 13]]
93KI - Künstliche Intelligenz (2025) 39:81–95 
Papers, LNBIP, vol. 492, pp. 427–439. Springer. https:// doi. org/ 
10. 1007/ 978-3- 031- 50974-2_ 32
 11. Fill HG, Fettke P, Köpke J (2023) Conceptual modeling and large 
language models: impressions from first experiments with chatgpt. 
Enterprise Modell Inf Syst Arch 18:1–15
 12. Klievtsova N, Benzin J, Kampik T, Mangler J, Rinderle-Ma S 
(2023) Conversational process modelling: State of the art, appli-
cations, and implications in practice. In: Francescomarino CD, 
Burattin A, Janiesch C, Sadiq SW (eds.) Business Process Man-
agement Forum - BPM 2023 Forum, Utrecht, The Netherlands, 
September 11–15, 2023, Proceedings, Lecture Notes in Business 
Information Processing, vol. 490, pp. 319–336. Springer. https:// 
doi. org/ 10. 1007/ 978-3- 031- 41623-1_ 19
 13. Cámara J, Troya J, Burgueño L, Vallecillo A (2023) On the assess-
ment of generative ai in modeling tasks: an experience report with 
ChatGPT and UML. Softw Syst Model 22(3):781–793. https:// doi. 
org/ 10. 1007/ s10270- 023- 01105-5
 14. Busch K, Rochlitzer A, Sola D, Leopold H (2023) Just tell me: 
prompt engineering in business process management. In: van der 
Aa H, Bork D, Proper HA, Schmidt R (eds) Enterprise, business-
process and information systems modeling. Springer, Cham, pp 
3–11
 15. Barn BS, Barat S, Sandkuhl K (2024) Adaptation of enterprise 
modeling methods for large language models. In: Almeida JPA, 
Kaczmarek-Heß M, Koschmider A, Proper HA (eds) The practice 
of enterprise modeling. Springer, Cham, pp 3–18
 16. OMG (2011) Business Process Model and Notation (BPMN), Ver-
sion 2.0. https:// www. omg. org/ spec/ BPMN/2.0
 17. OMG (2023) Decision Model and Notation (DMN), Version 1.4. 
https:// www. omg. org/ spec/ DMN/1.4
 18. Zhao WX, Zhou K, Li J, Tang T, Wang X, Hou Y, Min Y, Zhang 
B, Zhang J, Dong Z, Du Y, Yang C, Chen Y, Chen Z, Jiang J, Ren 
R, Li Y, Tang X, Liu Z, Liu P, Nie J, Wen J (2023). A survey of 
large language models. https:// doi. org/ 10. 48550/ ARXIV. 2303. 
18223
 19. Hamilton K, Nayak A, Božić B, Longo L (2022) Is neuro-sym-
bolic ai meeting its promises in natural language processing? 
a structured review. Semantic Web. https:// doi. org/ 10. 3233/ 
SW- 223228
 20. Dumas M, Rosa ML, Mendling J, Reijers HA (2018) Fundamen-
tals of business process management, 2nd edn. Springer, Berlin. 
https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/ 978-3- 662- 56509-4
 21. OMG (2016) Case Management Model and Notation (CMMN), 
Version 2.0. https:// www. omg. org/ spec/ CMMN/1.1
 22. Satyal S, Weber I, Paik H, Ciccio CD, Mendling J (2019) Business 
process improvement with the AB-BPM methodology. Inf Syst 
84:283–298. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. is. 2018. 06. 007
 23. Yao S, Zhao J, Yu D, Du N, Shafran I, Narasimhan KR, Cao 
Y (2023) React: Synergizing reasoning and acting in language 
models. In: The Eleventh International Conference on Learning 
Representations, ICLR 2023, Kigali, Rwanda, May 1–5, 2023. 
OpenReview.net
 24. Wang L, Xu W, Lan Y, Hu Z, Lan Y, Lee RK, Lim E (2023). 
Plan-and-solve prompting: Improving zero-shot chain-of-thought 
reasoning by large language models. https:// doi. org/ 10. 18653/ V1/ 
2023. ACL- LONG. 147
 25. Fahland D (2022) Process mining over multiple behavioral dimen-
sions with event knowledge graphs. In: van der Aalst WMP, Car-
mona J (eds) Process mining handbook lecture notes in business 
information processing. Springer, Cham, pp 274–319
 26. Maggi FM, Mooij AJ, van der Aalst WM (2011) User-guided 
discovery of declarative process models. In: 2011 IEEE Sympo-
sium on Computational Intelligence and Data Mining (CIDM), 
pp. 192–199. doi: https:// doi. org/ 10. 1109/ CIDM. 2011. 59492 97
 27. Giacomo GD, Dumas M, Maggi FM, Montali M (2015) Declara-
tive process modeling in BPMN. In: Zdravkovic J, Kirikova M, 
Johannesson P (eds.) Advanced Information Systems Engineering 
- 27th International Conference, CAiSE 2015, Stockholm, Swe-
den, June 8–12, 2015, Proceedings, LNCS, vol. 9097, pp. 84–100. 
Springer. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/ 978-3- 319- 19069-3_6
 28. van der Aa H, Rebmann A, Leopold H (2021) Natural language-
based detection of semantic execution anomalies in event logs. Inf 
Syst 102:101824. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. is. 2021. 101824
 29. Caspary J, Rebmann A, van der Aa H (2023) Does this make 
sense? machine learning-based detection of semantic anomalies in 
business processes. In: Francescomarino CD, Burattin A, Janiesch 
C, Sadiq S (eds.) Business Process Management - 21st Interna-
tional Conference, BPM 2023, Utrecht, The Netherlands, Septem-
ber 11–15, 2023, Proceedings, LNCS, vol. 14159, pp. 163–179. 
Springer. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/ 978-3- 031- 41620-0_ 10
 30. Lewis P, Perez E, Piktus A, Petroni F, Karpukhin V, Goyal N, 
Küttler H, Lewis M, Yih WT, Rocktäschel T, Riedel S, Kiela D 
(2020) Retrieval-augmented generation for knowledge-intensive 
nlp tasks. In: Larochelle H, Ranzato M, Hadsell R, Balcan M, Lin 
H (eds) Advances in neural information processing systems, vol 
33. Curran Associates, Inc., Red Hook, pp 9459–9474
 31. Lu T, Pál D, Pal M (2010) Contextual multi-armed bandits. In: 
Teh YW, Titterington DM (eds.) Proceedings of the Thirteenth 
International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Statistics, 
AISTATS 2010, Chia Laguna Resort, Sardinia, Italy, May 13–15, 
2010, JMLR Proceedings, vol. 9, pp. 485–492. JMLR.org
 32. Grohs M, Abb L, Elsayed N, Rehse JR (2023) Large language 
models can accomplish business process management tasks. 
Business process management workshops. Springer, Cham, pp 
453–465
 33. Kampik T, Weske M (2022) Event log generation: An industry 
perspective. In: Augusto A, Gill A, Bork D, Nurcan S, Reinhartz-
Berger I, Schmidt R (eds.) Enterprise, Business-Process and 
Information Systems Modeling - 23rd International Conference, 
BPMDS 2022 and 27th International Conference, EMMSAD 
2022, Held at CAiSE 2022, Leuven, Belgium, June 6–7, 2022, 
Proceedings, LNBIP, vol. 450, pp. 123–136. Springer. https:// doi. 
org/ 10. 1007/ 978-3- 031- 07475-2_9
 34. Niedermaier S, Koetter F, Freymann A, Wagner S (2019) On 
observability and monitoring of distributed systems - an industry 
interview study. In: Yangui S, Bouassida Rodriguez I, Drira K, 
Tari Z (eds) Service-oriented computing. Springer International 
Publishing, Cham, pp 36–52
 35. Dixit PM, Verbeek HMW, Buijs JCAM, van der Aalst WMP 
(2018) Interactive data-driven process model construction. In: 
Trujillo JC, Davis KC, Du X, Li Z, Ling TW, Li G, Lee ML (eds) 
Conceptual modeling. Springer, Cham, pp 251–265
 36. Schuster D, van Zelst SJ, van der Aalst WM (2022) Utilizing 
domain knowledge in data-driven process discovery: a literature 
review. Comput Ind 137:103612. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. compi 
nd. 2022. 103612
 37. Diba K, Batoulis K, Weidlich M, Weske M (2020) Extraction, cor-
relation, and abstraction of event data for process mining. WIREs 
Data Mining Knowl Discov 10(3):e1346. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1002/ 
WIDM. 1346
 38. Stein Dani V, Leopold H, van der Werf JMEM, Beerepoot I, 
Reijers HA (2024) From process mining insights to process 
improvement: All talk and no action? In: Sellami M, Vidal ME, 
van Dongen B, Gaaloul W, Panetto H (eds) Cooperative informa-
tion systems. Springer Nature Switzerland, Cham, pp 275–292
 39. Bellan P, Dragoni M, Ghidini C (2021) Process extraction 
from text: state of the art and challenges for the future. CoRR 
abs/2110.03754
 40. Sai C, Winter K, Fernanda E, Rinderle-Ma S (2023) Detecting 
deviations between external and internal regulatory require-
ments for improved process compliance assessment. In: Indul-
ska M, Reinhartz-Berger I, Cetina C, Pastor O (eds.) Advanced

[[page 14]]
94 KI - Künstliche Intelligenz (2025) 39:81–95
Information Systems Engineering - 35th International Confer -
ence, CAiSE 2023, Zaragoza, Spain, June 12–16, 2023, Pro-
ceedings, LNCS, vol. 13901, pp. 401–416. Springer. https:// doi. 
org/ 10. 1007/ 978-3- 031- 34560-9_ 24
 41. van der Aa H, Di Ciccio C, Leopold H, Reijers HA (2019) 
Extracting declarative process models from natural language. 
In: Advanced Information Systems Engineering: 31st Interna-
tional Conference, CAiSE 2019, Rome, Italy, June 3–7, 2019, 
Proceedings 31, pp. 365–382. Springer
 42. Leopold H, Mendling J, Polyvyanyy A (2014) Supporting pro-
cess model validation through natural language generation. 
IEEE Trans Softw Eng 40(8):818–840. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1109/ 
TSE. 2014. 23270 44
 43. Sola D, van der Aa H, Meilicke C, Stuckenschmidt H (2023) 
Activity recommendation for business process modeling with 
pre-trained language models. In: Pesquita C, Jiménez-Ruiz 
E, McCusker JP, Faria D, Dragoni M, Dimou A, Troncy R, 
Hertling S (eds.) The Semantic Web - 20th International Confer -
ence, ESWC 2023, Hersonissos, Crete, Greece, May 28–June 
1, 2023, Proceedings, Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 
13870, pp. 316–334. Springer. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/ 978-3- 
031- 33455-9_ 19
 44. Nolle T, Luettgen S, Seeliger A, Mühlhäuser M (2022) Binet: 
multi-perspective business process anomaly classification. Inf 
Syst 103:101458
 45. Neu DA, Lahann J, Fettke P (2022) A systematic literature 
review on state-of-the-art deep learning methods for process 
prediction. Artif Intell Rev 55(2):801–827
 46. Camargo M, Dumas M, Rojas OG (2022) Learning accu-
rate business process simulation models from event logs via 
automated process discovery and deep learning. In: Franch 
X, Poels G, Gailly F, Snoeck M (eds.) Advanced Information 
Systems Engineering - 34th International Conference, CAiSE 
2022, Leuven, Belgium, June 6-10, 2022, Proceedings, LNCS, 
vol. 13295, pp. 55–71. Springer. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/ 
978-3- 031- 07472-1_4
 47. Smedt JD, Yeshchenko A, Polyvyanyy A, Weerdt JD, Mend-
ling J (2023) Process model forecasting and change exploration 
using time series analysis of event sequence data. Data Knowl 
Eng 145:102145. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. datak. 2023. 102145
 48. Satyal S, Weber I, Paik H, Ciccio CD, Mendling J (2018) 
Shadow testing for business process improvement. In: Panetto 
H, Debruyne C, Proper HA, Ardagna CA, Roman D, Meersman 
R (eds.) On the Move to Meaningful Internet Systems. OTM 
2018 Conferences - Confederated International Conferences: 
CoopIS, C &TC, and ODBASE 2018, Valletta, Malta, October 
22–26, 2018, Proceedings, Part I, LNCS, vol. 11229, pp. 153–
171. Springer. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/ 978-3- 030- 02610-3_9
 49. Kurz A, Santelmann B, Großmann T, Kampik T, Pufahl L, 
Weber I (2022) HITL-AB-BPM: business process improvement 
with AB testing and human-in-the-loop. In: Janiesch C, Franc-
escomarino CD, Grisold T, Kumar A, Mendling J, Pentland BT, 
Reijers HA, Weske M, Winter R (eds.) Proceedings of the Best 
Dissertation Award, Doctoral Consortium, and Demonstration 
& Resources Track at BPM 2022 co-located with 20th Inter -
national Conference on Business Process Management (BPM 
2022), Münster, Germany, September 11th to 16th, 2022, CEUR 
Workshop Proceedings, vol. 3216, pp. 122–126. CEUR-WS.org
 50. Kurz A, Kampik T, Pufahl L, Weber I (2023) Reinforcement 
learning-supported AB testing of business process improve-
ments: An industry perspective. In: van der Aa H, Bork D, 
Proper HA, Schmidt R (eds.) Enterprise, Business-Process 
and Information Systems Modeling - 24th International Con-
ference, BPMDS 2023, and 28th International Conference, 
EMMSAD 2023, Zaragoza, Spain, June 12–13, 2023, Proceed -
ings, LNBIP, vol. 479, pp. 12–26. Springer. https:// doi. org/ 10. 
1007/ 978-3- 031- 34241-7_2
 51. Polyvyanyy A (ed) (2022) Process querying methods. Springer, 
Cham. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/ 978-3- 030- 92875-9
 52. Seedat N, Imrie F, van der Schaar M (2022) Dc-check: A 
data-centric AI checklist to guide the development of reliable 
machine learning systems. CoRR abs/2211.05764. doi: https:// 
doi. org/ 10. 48550/ arXiv. 2211. 05764
 53. Bender EM, Gebru T, McMillan-Major A, Shmitchell S (2021) 
On the dangers of stochastic parrots: Can language models be 
too big? In: Proceedings of the 2021 ACM Conference on Fair -
ness, Accountability, and Transparency, FAccT ’21, p. 610–623. 
Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA. 
https:// doi. org/ 10. 1145/ 34421 88. 34459 22
 54. Frankfurt HG (2005) On bullshit. Princeton University Press, 
Princeton
 55. Qafari MS, Van der Aalst W (2019) Fairness-aware process 
mining. In: On the Move to Meaningful Internet Systems: OTM 
2019 Conferences: Confederated International Conferences: 
CoopIS, ODBASE, C &TC 2019, Rhodes, Greece, October 
21–25, 2019, Proceedings, pp. 182–192. Springer
 56. Fahrenkrog-Petersen SA, van der Aa H, Weidlich M (2023) 
Optimal event log sanitization for privacy-preserving process 
mining. Data Knowl Eng 145:102175. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. 
datak. 2023. 102175
 57. Fahrenkrog-Petersen SA, Kabierski M, van der Aa H, Wei-
dlich M (2023) Semantics-aware mechanisms for control-flow 
anonymization in process mining. Inf Syst 114:102169. https:// 
doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. is. 2023. 102169
 58. Hashmi M, Governatori G, Lam HP, Wynn MT (2018) Are we 
done with business process compliance: state of the art and 
challenges ahead. Knowl Inf Syst 57(1):79–133
 59. Thaler RH, Sunstein CR, Balz JP (2013) Choice architecture. 
The behavioral foundations of public policy. Princeton Univer -
sity Press, Princeton, pp 428–439
 60. Weinmann M, Schneider C, vom Brocke J (2016) Digital nudg-
ing. Bus Inf Syst Eng 58(6):433–436. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/ 
s12599- 016- 0453-1
 61. Mukherjee S, Mitra A, Jawahar G, Agarwal S, Palangi H, 
Awadallah A (2023) Orca: Progressive learning from complex 
explanation traces of GPT-4. doi: https:// doi. org/ 10. 48550/ 
ARXIV. 2306. 02707
 62. Vidgof M, Bachhofner S, Mendling J (2023) Large language 
models for business process management: Opportunities and 
challenges. In: Francescomarino CD, Burattin A, Janiesch C, 
Sadiq SW (eds.) Business Process Management Forum - BPM 
2023 Forum, Utrecht, The Netherlands, September 11–15, 2023, 
Proceedings, Lecture Notes in Business Information Process-
ing, vol. 490, pp. 107–123. Springer. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/ 
978-3- 031- 41623-1_7
 63. Beheshti A, Yang J, Sheng QZ, Benatallah B, Casati F, Dustdar 
S, Nezhad HRM, Zhang X, Xue S (2023) Processgpt: Trans-
forming business process management with generative artificial 
intelligence. In: 2023 IEEE International Conference on Web 
Services (ICWS), pp. 731–739. doi: https:// doi. org/ 10. 1109/ 
ICWS6 0048. 2023. 00099
 64. Berti A, Qafari MS (2023) Leveraging large language models 
(llms) for process mining (technical report). doi: https:// doi. org/ 
10. 48550/ arXiv. 2307. 12701

[[page 15]]
95KI - Künstliche Intelligenz (2025) 39:81–95 
 65. Schäfer B, van der Aa H, Leopold H, Stuckenschmidt H (2023) 
Sketch2process: End-to-end BPMN sketch recognition based 
on neural networks. IEEE Trans Softw Eng 49(4):2621–2641. 
https:// doi. org/ 10. 1109/ TSE. 2022. 32283 08
Authors and Affiliations
Timotheus Kampik1  · Christian Warmuth1 · Adrian Rebmann1 · Ron Agam1 · Lukas N. P . Egger1 · Andreas Gerber1 · 
Johannes Hoffart1 · Jonas Kolk1 · Philipp Herzig1 · Gero Decker1 · Han van der Aa2 · Artem Polyvyanyy3 · 
Stefanie Rinderle‑Ma4 · Ingo Weber4,5 · Matthias Weidlich6
 * Timotheus Kampik 
 timotheus.kampik@sap.com
 Christian Warmuth 
 christian.warmuth@sap.com
 Adrian Rebmann 
 adrian.rebmann@sap.com
 Ron Agam 
 ron.agam@sap.com
 Lukas N. P. Egger 
 lukas.egger@sap.com
 Andreas Gerber 
 andreas.gerber@sap.com
 Johannes Hoffart 
 johannes.hoffart@sap.com
 Jonas Kolk 
 jonas.kolk@sap.com
 Philipp Herzig 
 philipp.herzig@sap.com
 Gero Decker 
 gero.decker@sap.com
 Han van der Aa 
 han.van.der.aa@univie.ac.at
 Artem Polyvyanyy 
 artem.polyvyanyy@unimelb.edu.au
 Stefanie Rinderle-Ma 
 stefanie.rinderle-ma@tum.de
 Ingo Weber 
 ingo.weber@tum.de
 Matthias Weidlich 
 matthias.weidlich@hu-berlin.de
1 SAP, Berlin, Germany
2 University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria
3 University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Australia
4 School of CIT, Technical University of Munich, Munich, 
Germany
5 Fraunhofer Gesellschaft, Munich, Germany
6 Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, Berlin, Germany