[[page 1]]
WebPilot: A Versatile and Autonomous Multi-Agent System for Web Task
Execution with Strategic Exploration
Yao Zhang 1,3* † Zijian Ma 2* Yunpu Ma1,3†
Zhen Han 1 Yu Wu 2 Volker Tresp1,3†
1 LMU Munich 2 Technical University of Munich 3 Munich Center for Machine Learning
yzhang@dbs.ifi.lmu.de tresp@dbs.ifi.lmu.de
Abstract
LLM-based autonomous agents often fail to execute com-
plex web tasks that require dynamic interaction, largely due
to the inherent uncertainty and complexity of these envi-
ronments. Existing LLM-based web agents typically rely on
rigid, expert-designed policies specific to certain states and
actions, lacking the flexibility and generalizability needed
to adapt to unseen tasks. In contrast, humans excel by ex-
ploring unknowns, continuously adapting strategies based on
new observations, and resolving ambiguities through explo-
ration. To emulate human-like adaptability, web agents need
strategic exploration and complex decision-making. Monte
Carlo Tree Search (MCTS) is well-suited for this, but clas-
sical MCTS struggles with vast action spaces, unpredictable
state transitions, and incomplete information in web tasks.
In light of this, we develop WebPilot, a multi-agent system
with a dual optimization strategy that improves MCTS to
better handle complex web environments. Specifically, the
Global Optimization phase involves generating a high-level
plan by breaking down tasks into manageable subtasks, con-
tinuously refining this plan through reflective analysis of new
observations and previous subtask attempts, thereby focus-
ing the search process and mitigating challenges posed by
vast action spaces in classical MCTS. Subsequently, the Lo-
cal Optimization phase executes each subtask using a tai-
lored MCTS designed for complex environments, effectively
addressing uncertainties and managing incomplete informa-
tion by iteratively refining decisions based on new observa-
tions. Experimental results on WebArena and MiniWoB++
demonstrate the effectiveness of WebPilot. Notably, on We-
bArena, WebPilot achieves SOTA performance with GPT-4,
achieving a 93% relative increase in success rate over the
concurrent tree search-based method. WebPilot marks a sig-
nificant advancement in general autonomous agent capabili-
ties, paving the way for more advanced and reliable decision-
making in practical environments. Our code is publicly re-
leased at github.com/WebPilot.
1 Introduction
The advanced reasoning capabilities of Large Language
Models (LLMs) (Yang et al. 2023; Achiam et al. 2023; Team
et al. 2023; Anthropic 2024) have significantly expanded the
potential for developing autonomous web agents capable of
*Equal contribution
†Corresponding authors
navigating and interacting within complex, dynamic envi-
ronments (Lai et al. 2024; Deng et al. 2024). To fully harness
this potential, these agents must excel in tasks such as com-
plex information retrieval, long-horizon task execution, and
the integration of diverse information sources (Wang et al.
2024; Zhou et al. 2023b).
However, despite the advanced reasoning capabilities of
LLMs, current LLM-based web agents (Sodhi et al. 2024;
Ma et al. 2023) often fall short in executing complex web
tasks that require dynamic interaction. This limitation arises
primarily from their heavy reliance on rigid, expert-designed
policies tailored to specific states and actions. While these
policies are meticulously crafted to address well-defined
scenarios, they inherently lack the flexibility and general-
izability needed to adapt to the uncertain and variable nature
of real-world web environments, as well as to unseen tasks.
In contrast, humans excel at handling complex web tasks
due to their cognitive flexibility (Daw, Niv, and Dayan
2005), which allows them to explore unknowns, adjust plans
dynamically based on new observations, and resolve ambi-
guities through trial and error. This adaptability enables hu-
mans to navigate uncertain environments, make decisions
with incomplete information, and modify strategies in real
time. Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS) mirrors this cog-
nitive process, making it particularly effective in emulating
human web navigation strategies. MCTS facilitates the ex-
ploration of unknowns by expanding nodes during the tree
search, helping web agents discover effective actions. It ad-
justs tactical-level strategies during the search process, re-
fining action generation at each node based on the feedback
from the expansion, much like how humans iteratively adjust
their actions in response to new observations. When encoun-
tering dead ends or unclear paths—nodes with low potential
or uncertain outcomes—MCTS reassesses and explores al-
ternative branches, effectively addressing the limitations of
LLMs in handling unfamiliar web environments.
Despite its potential, classical MCTS (Browne et al. 2012)
struggles in complex web environments due to vast action
spaces, unpredictable state transitions, and incomplete in-
formation. While recent methods like LLM-MCTS (Zhao,
Lee, and Hsu 2024) and LATS (Zhou et al. 2023a) integrate
LLMs for heuristic guidance, they are limited to tasks with
smaller action spaces and lower complexity, reducing their
effectiveness in real-world scenarios. Similarly, RAP (Hao
arXiv:2408.15978v1 [cs.AI] 28 Aug 2024

[[page 2]]
Benchmark Dynamic
Interaction
Partial
Obs. Env.
Non-Fixed
Policy Scalable Realistic
Web Env.
Comp. Self-
Reward
RAP (Hao et al. 2023b) ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗
LATS (Zhou et al. 2023a) ✓ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗
LLM-MCTS (Zhao, Lee, and Hsu 2024) ✗ ✓ ✗ ✓ ✗ ✗
SteP (Sodhi et al. 2024) ✓ ✓ ✗ ✗ ✓ ✗
LM-Tree Search (Koh et al. 2024) ✓ ✓ ✓ ✗ ✓ ✗
WebPilot ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
Table 1: Comparison of different agent types, including web agents and MCTS-based agents. Partial Obs. Env. - Partially
Observable Environment. Comp. Self-Reward - Comprehensive self-reward mechanism.
et al. 2023a) optimizes inference paths but lacks the flexi-
bility for dynamic interaction in complex environments. Re-
ward mechanism within MCTS also remains challenging for
complex environments; current approaches either rely on di-
rect environment reward (Zhou et al. 2023a), which is im-
practical for real-world tasks, or use overly simplistic scor-
ing systems (e.g., binary or low-resolution scales (Koh et al.
2024)), failing to accurately capture the nuanced and evolv-
ing nature of web environments. These limitations highlight
the need for more adaptable and robust MCTS-based meth-
ods capable of effectively navigating complex web tasks.
In response to these challenges, we introduce WebPilot, a
versatile multi-agent system designed with a dual optimiza-
tion strategy grounded in the principles of MCTS, specif-
ically tailored for enhanced adaptability in complex envi-
ronments. WebPilot first applies Global Optimization, de-
composing tasks and refining high-level plans through re-
flective analysis. This enables the system to dynamically
adapt to evolving objectives while effectively managing the
complexities of vast action spaces. Following this, WebPi-
lot employs Local Optimization to execute each subtask us-
ing a customized MCTS approach, addressing uncertainties
and incomplete information by iteratively refining decisions
based on new observations.
Specifically, the Global Optimization phase is driven by
Planner, Controller, and Extractor. It begins with Hierar-
chical Task Decomposition (HTD), where Planner breaks
down complex tasks into manageable subtasks, narrowing
the focus and effectively addressing the vast action spaces
that challenge classical MCTS. Reflective Task Adjustment
(RTA) then refines the high-level plan based on new ob-
servations, allowing WebPilot to adapt dynamically. Con-
troller monitors subtask progression, assessing subtask com-
pleteness and generating reflections if the subtask requires
re-execution, ensuring accurate and adaptive task comple-
tion. Throughout this process, Extractor gathers essential
information to support task execution. This coordinated ap-
proach ensures WebPilot remains adaptable and efficient in
dynamic environments.
For each subtask, WebPilot employs Local Optimiza-
tion strategies driven by the Explorer, Verifier, Appraiser,
and Controller to enhance execution in dynamic environ-
ments. Goal-Oriented Selection (GOS) harnesses the in-
tuitions of LLMs to efficiently steer WebPilot toward the
most promising states for subtask completion. Reflection-
Enhanced Node Expansion (RENE) uses real-time feedback
to continuously refine tactical-level strategies as conditions
evolve. Dynamic Evaluation and Simulation (DES) continu-
ously assesses actions and anticipates potential outcomes by
integrating real-time feedback with one-step forward simu-
lations. Maximal Value Backpropagation (MVB) prioritizes
promising paths by focusing on strategies with the high-
est potential, updating values based on maximum future re-
wards. By integrating Local Optimization with Global opti-
mization strategies, WebPilot ensures adaptable task execu-
tion, harnessing the specialized abilities and responsibilities
of multiple agents to outperform existing web agents in dy-
namic environments.
Experiments on MiniWoB++ (Liu et al. 2018) and We-
bArena (Zhou et al. 2023b) are chosen to assess the per-
formance of WebPilot in environments with varying com-
plexity. The results highlight the superiority of WebPilot,
particularly in the complex, realistic web environment. In
WebArena, WebPilot achieves an impressive 37.2% suc-
cess rate, surpassing the current SOTA method, SteP (Sodhi
et al. 2024), which relies on rigid, expert-designed poli-
cies tailored to specific states and actions. Notably, WebPi-
lot demonstrates a remarkable 93% relative increase in suc-
cess rate over concurrent tree-based methods (Koh et al.
2024). Even when using GPT-3.5, WebPilot remains highly
competitive with GPT-4-based SOTA methods, achieving a
29.1% success rate. These results underscore the exceptional
ability of WebPilot to handle the uncertainty and complexity
inherent in real-world web environments.
The primary contributions of this work are as follows:
1. We introduce WebPilot, an autonomous multi-agent
system designed for complex web environments, combining
global and local MCTS-inspired optimization strategies to
enable human-like flexibility in exploration, adaptation, and
decision-making at both the subtask and action levels.
2. We develop a Hierarchical Reflection Mechanism, in-
corporating Strategic Reflection in Global Optimization and
Tactical Reflection in Local Optimization, which signifi-
cantly enhances adaptive learning and decision-making in
evolving environments.
3. We introduce a novel Granular Bifaceted Self-Reward
Mechanism that guides MCTS by integrating action effec-
tiveness with goal-oriented potential, allowing for more pre-
cise assessments in dynamic and ambiguous environments.
4. WebPilot achieves SOTA performance, particularly in
challenging benchmarks like WebArena, demonstrating sub-
stantial advancements in general autonomous agent capabil-
ities for complex real-world tasks.
2

[[page 3]]
2 Related Work
In this section, we provide a comparative analysis of LLM-
based web agents and MCTS-based agents, with a detailed
comparison presented in Tab. 1. For a more in-depth analysis
of these agents, please refer to the Appendix.
2.1 LLM-Based Autonomous Web Agents
Recent advancements in LLMs have paved the way for the
development of web agents that leverage the reasoning abili-
ties of LLMs to interact with web environments. One line of
LLM-based web agent (Kim, Baldi, and McAleer 2024; Sun
et al. 2024; Prasad et al. 2023; Fu et al. 2024; Ma et al. 2023;
Zheng et al. 2023; Tao et al. 2023) predominantly relies
on environment-specific state-action pairs embedded within
demonstrations to respond to specific observations. For in-
stance, SteP (Sodhi et al. 2024), currently the SOTA on We-
bArena(Zhou et al. 2023b), utilizes rigid, expert-designed
policies tailored to particular states and actions. However,
these agents often struggle with exploring and adapting to
realistic, unseen web tasks. Another line of web agents (Li
et al. 2023; Zhou et al. 2023a; Pan et al. 2024; Koh et al.
2024) adopts a strategy of freely exploring and discover-
ing unknown environments. Despite efforts like Auto Eval
& Refine (Pan et al. 2024), which incorporates an evalua-
tor into Reflexion (Shinn et al. 2024), and LM-Tree Search
(Koh et al. 2024), which employs a search-based method
in realistic environments, these agents still encounter chal-
lenges with complex tasks, leaving room for significant ad-
vancements. WebPilot, in contrast, is a multi-agent system
employing a dual optimization strategy, excelling in explor-
ing unseen tasks and dynamically adjusting strategies and
actions based on new observations. This capability enables
WebPilot to demonstrate superior adaptability in more com-
plex environments.
2.2 LLM-MCTS Applications
MCTS, originally developed for the game of Go (Coulom
2006; Browne et al. 2012), is renowned for its effectiveness
in handling exploration problems. Enhanced by the Upper
Confidence bounds applied to Trees (UCT) method (Koc-
sis and Szepesv´ari 2006), MCTS has found extensive use in
fields such as robotics(Zhao, Lee, and Hsu 2024), strategy
games (Jang et al. 2021), and autonomous vehicles (Lenz,
Kessler, and Knoll 2016). Recently, researchers have inte-
grated LLMs with MCTS to tackle various NLP tasks, in-
cluding QA (Hong et al. 2023; Xie et al. 2024; Chi, Yang,
and Klein 2024), prompt refinement techniques (Wang et al.
2023), and complex mathematical reasoning problems (Tian
et al. 2024; Zhang et al. 2024). Building on this integration,
LLM-based agents have also incorporated MCTS to enhance
their exploratory and decision-making capabilities. For in-
stance, LATS (Zhou et al. 2023a) applies MCTS to simple
web tasks. However, traditional MCTS-based methods often
encounter difficulties in scenarios with vast action spaces,
unpredictable state transitions, and incomplete information
in web tasks. WebPilot addresses these challenges by utiliz-
ing a tailored MCTS designed specifically for complex en-
vironments, effectively navigating and optimizing decision-
making processes even in highly uncertain situations.
3 Methodology
In §3.1, we formally describe the web exploration task, high-
lighting the challenges posed by the uncertain nature and dy-
namic of these environments. To overcome these challenges,
WebPilot employs a dual optimization strategy, i.e., Global
Optimization and Local Optimization. During the Global
Optimization phase, as detailed in §3.2, WebPilot gener-
ates high-level plans and continuously refines these plans
through reflective analysis. This is followed by the Local
Optimization phase, described in §3.3, where WebPilot en-
gages in low-level strategic exploration. The entire process
is outlined in Algo. 1, with additional details provided in the
Appendix.
3.1 Promblem Formulation
Our objective is to enable the LLM-based web agent to ef-
fectively solve a taskT in a web environmentE by emulat-
ing human web navigation strategies. Web environments are
inherently partially observable, which limits the information
available to agents and complicates problem-solving. This
partial observability occurs because web content can change
dynamically, meaning the agent cannot fully anticipate or
know the state of certain elements—such as updated content
or availability—until it interacts with them. Consequently,
agents must often make decisions under conditions of un-
certainty and incomplete information. Following WebArena
(Zhou et al. 2023b), we use an accessibility tree, referred
to as actree, to represent the observation, which captures the
structure and interactive elements of the web page. However,
due to the lack of specific web domain knowledge, LLMs
often struggle to recognize or utilize the functionalities of
various web elements. As a result, the agent must actively
explore the environment to gather critical information about
both the task and the functionality of the web elements, mak-
ing informed decisions despite these uncertainties and in-
complete information.
Specifically, this process can be modeled as a Partially
Observable Markov Decision Process (POMDP). The envi-
ronmentE is defined by a state space S, an action space
A, and an observation space O. The transition function
F :S×A→S dictates how states evolve based on ac-
tions taken, typically in a deterministic manner governed by
the environment. Task execution requires the agent to make
decisions based on partial observationsot at each time stept.
Each action at results in a new statest+1 and an updated ob-
servation ot+1. The evaluation function eval(a, s), defined
by the environment, assesses the success of task execution.
Here, a = {a1, . . . , an} represents the sequence of exe-
cuted actions, ands ={s1, . . . , sn} denotes the correspond-
ing sequence of intermediate states. This function evaluates
whether the state transitions satisfy the criteria established
by the taskT .
3.2 Global Optimization: Adaptive Strategy
Refinement through Reflective Adjustment
The Global Optimization phase emulates human cognition
by leveraging prior knowledge to generate an initial plan
for unfamiliar tasks. However, due to the lack of specific
3

[[page 4]]
Local Optimization
Simulation
Global Optimization
ℛ!%&
IV . Subtask 
Reflection
V. Plan 
Refinement
Web Env
I. Plan
Generation
II. Next 
Subtask𝑇’
Info Extraction
Action Verification
ℛ%!(For Sibling): After clicking ‘Settings’, 
I can’t see elements related to 
‘Members’, so I should not click it again.
GOS RENE DES MVB
Observation 𝑜&’(
How effect is the executed Action 𝑎&?
How promising is the current Observation 𝑜&’(?
ℛ)"(For child):There is a 
‘Members’ link. Next, I could 
use it toget to the target page.
The page shows the Members information! 
The score is: 9
The action led to the target page!
 The score is: 8
Action
Observation
Invite David to Project A and 
tell mehis email address 
Navigate to ‘Members’ 𝑇’: Navigate to ‘Members’ 
𝑇(: Extract the email
Current Plan
HTD
State Transition Simulation
Navigate to Project ANavigate to Project A𝑇): Navigate to Project A
Finished Subtasks
Let me see what is going on!
(Action 𝑎&,Observation 𝑜&’()
Controller
Controller
Extractor
Verifier
 Explorer
Explorer
Appraiser
The score for the state is: 0.5×8+0.5×9=8.5
𝑎& click link ‘Members’
Planner
The Subtask is not yetcomplete.
OK, I will do one-step forward simulation!
ℛ!"#
(Simulation)
Actree
RTA
click link ‘Settings’
Child Reflection
Sibling Reflection Simulation Reflection
Reflection Generation
III. Completeness 
Assessment
Figure 1: An overview of WebPilot. GOS: Goal-Oriented Selection; RENE: Reflection-Enhanced Node Expansion; DES: Dy-
namic Evaluation and Simulation; MVB: Maximal Value Backpropagation; HTD: Hierarchical Task Decomposition; RTA:
Reflective Task Adjustment.
web domain knowledge in LLMs and the dynamic, uncer-
tain nature of web environments, this initial plan misses crit-
ical details and struggles to remain effective as the environ-
ment evolves. To address this, WebPilot continuously refines
the initial plan through reflective analysis of new observa-
tions and previous subtask outcomes. Global Optimization
involves two key components: Hierarchical Task Decompo-
sition (HTD) and Reflective Task Adjustment (RTA), which
are facilitated by the Planner, Controller, and Extractor.
Hierarchical Task Decomposition (HTD) begins with
Planner breaking down complex tasks into smaller, manage-
able subtasksTi, thereby creating a flexible high-level plan
that can adapt to the uncertain and ever-changing conditions
of web environments. In generating this plan, Planner uti-
lizes only a few high-level demonstrations to ensure robust
and adaptive task decomposition; an example of this is pro-
vided in the Appendix. This approach allows WebPilot to
dynamically adjust its strategies for specific aspects of each
task, making it more responsive to environmental changes.
Unlike the concurrent search-based web agent (Koh et al.
2024), which struggles with complex tasks due to its expand-
ing search space, HTD ensures that each subtask is more
targeted and efficient. This decomposition enables WebPi-
lot to refine each subtask in real time, adjusting dynamically
to evolving conditions without requiring a complete over-
haul of the entire task execution. By concentrating on these
manageable subtasks, WebPilot employs MCTS-enhanced
decision strategies, specifically through the Local Optimiza-
tion phase as described in §3.3, to minimize unnecessary
search paths and optimize decision-making within a focused
scope, effectively mitigating the challenges posed by vast
action spaces that often hinder classical MCTS. The effec-
tiveness of Planner is demonstrated through ablation stud-
ies, detailed in §4.4.
Reflective Task Adjustment (RTA) Upon completing
each subtask in the Local Optimization phase, as will be dis-
cussed in §3.3, WebPilot reassesses and refines its high-level
plan to ensure alignment with the overall taskT . Guided by
Controller and Planner, this process critically evaluates the
execution of each subtask against expected outcomes, allow-
ing WebPilot to recalibrate its strategy based on new obser-
vations. Controller plays a crucial role in this process by as-
sessing whether the current observation ot and the executed
action sequences a align with the subtask Ti. It then gen-
erates a subtask completeness Comp t. If the completeness
assessment indicates that the subtask is not complete, Con-
troller initiates a re-execution of the subtask. Before this re-
execution, the Compt, along with the associated observation
and executed actions, is used to generate a Strategic Reflec-
tion, i.e., subtask reflectionRsub. This reflection guides the
repeated execution of the subtask, leveraging the experience
from the previous attempt to avoid repeating the same er-
rors. Meanwhile, Extractor continuously gathers critical in-
formation to support the successful completion of the task.
An example of Controller handling task completeness and
subtask reflection is provided in the Appendix.
3.3 Local Optimization: MCTS-Enhanced
Decision Strategies
The Local Optimization phase in WebPilot is inspired by
the human-like adaptability required to navigate and solve
complex web tasks, effectively captured by MCTS. For each
4

[[page 5]]
State Transition
Simulation
Subtask:Navigate to page of ”Pages” management
GOS RENE DES MVB
Start
Dashboard
𝑄=5.5
Contents
𝒂: click link ‘CONTENT’
Start
Dashboard
𝑄=5.5
Contents
𝑄=8.5
𝒂: click link ‘CONTENT’Simulation
Pages
𝒂: click link ‘Pages’
Start
Dashboard
𝑄=5.5
Dashboard
𝑄=5.5→8.5
Contents
𝑄=8.5
Start
𝑄
𝑄
Figure 2: Overview of the Local Optimization stage in WebPilot, highlighting key components: Goal-Oriented Selection (GOS),
Reflection-Enhanced Node Expansion (RENE), Dynamic Evaluation and Simulation (DES), and Maximal Value Backpropaga-
tion (MVB). The subtask in this example is “Navigate to the ‘Pages’ site.” For detailed results, please refer to the Appendix.
subtaskTi and its subtask-specific goals Objective i, which
define the expected outcomes or milestones to be achieved
within that subtask, Explorer, Verifier, and Appraiser work
together to complete the task. Explorer identifies optimal
actions, Verifier ensures these actions are valid and non-
redundant, and Appraiser evaluates both the immediate ef-
fectiveness of an action and its potential to achieve the in-
tended goal, offering continuous feedback for a more nu-
anced and accurate assessment. Throughout this process,
Controller assesses whether the subtask is completed and
determines if further actions are needed, ensuring alignment
with the overall task.
The Local Optimization phase of WebPilot, akin to clas-
sical MCTS, follows four key stages, as shown in Fig. 2:
1) Goal-Oriented Selection leverages the initial intuitions of
LLMs to steer WebPilot toward the most promising paths
for subtask completion, emulating how humans use prior
knowledge to navigate tasks. 2) Reflection-Enhanced Node
Expansion integrates feedback after each node expansion,
enabling WebPilot to reassess and refine its strategy dynam-
ically, much like human reflection informs decision-making.
3) Dynamic Evaluation and Simulation allows WebPilot
to assess current states by analyzing executed actions and
simulating potential outcomes, mirroring human foresight
in evaluating consequences. 4) Maximal Value Backprop-
agation prioritizes long-term potential by continuously up-
dating value estimates based on the maximum future re-
wards. Through this comprehensive Local Optimization
phase, WebPilot effectively balances exploration and ex-
ploitation, leading to more efficient and informed decision-
making in complex tasks.
Goal-Oriented Selection (GOS) directs Explorer toward
high-value nodes by leveraging the initial intuitions derived
from the LLM. Although these intuitions are not specifically
tailored to the environment, they provide valuable insights
that effectively narrow the action space. These insights arise
from the extensive pre-existing knowledge base of LLM, en-
abling it to make informed estimates about which actions are
likely to be more promising, even without explicit training in
the specific web domain. GOS employs a modified version
of the PUCT selection method, inspired by AlphaGo (Silver
et al. 2017):
U (s, a) = wpuct
pP
b N (s, b)
1 + N (s, a) , (1)
where wpuct represents the exploration bias factor balancing
the exploration and exploitation, and N (s, a) represents the
total count of conducting the action a in state s.
Unlike classical MCTS, as deployed in RAP (Hao et al.
2023a), which prioritizes unexplored nodes due to the in-
finite potential assigned by traditional UCT (Kocsis and
Szepesv´ari 2006), GOS refines this approach to better man-
age vast action spaces. The initial insights of LLM often as-
sign high value to the first visited node based on its broad
knowledge base. In contrast to UCT, which would man-
date exploring unvisited nodes even when the current node
is nearly optimal, GOS modifies the selection formula by
adding a +1 term in the denominator. This adjustment en-
ables GOS to direct the Explorer toward the most promising
paths, minimizing unnecessary exploration and efficiently
navigating complex environments, similar to how humans
use prior knowledge in decision-making.
Reflection-Enhanced Node Expansion (RENE) navi-
gates the vast action spaces of the web by integrating reflec-
tive feedback, i.e., Strategic Reflection and Tactical Reflec-
tion, at each step, enabling WebPilot to continuously refine
its strategy, enhancing decision-making through focused ex-
ploration and exploitation.
Specifically, to explore the state space efficiently, WebPi-
lot departs from traditional MCTS by generating and ex-
panding only one action per step.Explorer generates actions
5

[[page 6]]
at and corresponding intents It in real time, continuously
adjusting to evolving conditions with guidance from reflec-
tive feedback. Verifier ensures that the action at is both valid
and unique among sibling nodes. Formally,
at,It = Explorer(ot,Ti, Ht,Rt,Ct−1), (2)
whereTi the subtask, and Ht ={a1, . . . , at−1} the action
history. If available, the Tactical Reflections—comprising
simulation reflectionRsimt, parent reflection Rpt, and sib-
ling reflection Rst—along with the Strategic Reflection,
which is the subtask reflection Rsub, are incorporated into
Rt ={Rsimt ,Rpt ,Rst ,Rsub} and used together with the
continuation reasonCt−1 to leverage prior exploration. This
combined use of available reflections helps narrow the ac-
tion space and optimize the MCTS process.
Upon executing at, the environment returns the resulting
state and observation (st+1, ot+1). Explorer then compares
the current observation ot+1 with the previous one ot to de-
termine whether the action intentIt has been achieved:
Effect(at) = Explorer(ot+1, ot,It) (3)
Following this evaluation, Child ReflectionRct and Sibling
ReflectionRst are generated:
Rct ,Rst = Explorer(Effect(at),Ti, Objectivei, ot, Ht),
(4)
where Effect (at) captures the impact of at on the cur-
rent state, and Objectivei denotes the subtask-specific goals,
which define the expected outcomes or milestones to be
achieved within that subtask Ti. Detailed descriptions of
how Effect(at) is determined are provided in the Appendix.
Child Reflection guides the generation of the next action,
withRct becoming the parent reflectionRpt+1 for the child
node, ensuring continuity in the decision-making process.
This continuity is crucial for complex tasks, where main-
taining a coherent reasoning path is essential. Disruptions in
this flow can significantly impair performance, as demon-
strated in §4.4. Sibling ReflectionRst enhances exploration
by leveraging insights from previous sibling node explo-
rations, enabling the agent to focus on promising areas and
uncover new possibilities when encountering similar scenar-
ios. Together, Child Reflection and Sibling Reflection help
WebPilot narrow the vast action space to a more manage-
able subset when generating actions. By integrating feed-
back from reflections on already executed actions, WebPilot
effectively analyzes transitions and assesses decisions made
under incomplete information, thereby enhancing its overall
efficiency and performance in dynamic environments. The
roles and impacts of these reflection mechanisms are further
detailed in §4.4, with illustrative examples of these reflec-
tions provided in the Appendix. For a comprehensive view
of the Tactical Reflection, see Fig. 3.
Dynamic Evaluation and Simulation (DES) dynami-
cally assesses how generated actions align with evolving
task states by leveraging real-time feedback rather than re-
lying on predefined reward structures typical of classical
MCTS. This adaptive evaluation ensures that each action re-
mains responsive to the changing environment, guiding the
agent toward the evolving goal.
State Transition
ReflectionGeneration
Simulation
ℛ! Sibling Reflection
ℛ!"# Simulation Reflection
ℛ$ Child Reflection
ℛ!"#
ℛ$
ℛ!
ℛ$
ℛ!
ℛ$
ℛ!
ℛ$
ℛ!
Initial State
Figure 3: Tactical Reflection Flow. Diagram illustrating how
Child, Sibling, and Simulation Reflections guide decision-
making and exploration in WebPilot.
The reward function is crucial in MCTS, but prior meth-
ods often rely on direct feedback from the environment
(Zhou et al. 2023a), which is impractical for realistic web
tasks, or use binary success/failure outcomes or simplistic
intermediate states (Koh et al. 2024). Such approaches fre-
quently misjudge the ambiguous and evolving nature of web
environments, leading to inaccurate evaluations. Moreover,
intermediate steps on the web are challenging to categorize
as simply correct or incorrect because their effectiveness in
contributing to the final task outcome may not be immedi-
ately apparent. Inspired by the A* algorithm (Hart, Nilsson,
and Raphael 1968), Appraiser evaluates both the effective-
ness of the executed action at and the potential of the result-
ing observation ot+1 to achieve the intended goal, providing
a more nuanced and dynamic assessment. This approach is
refined using a granular 0-10 scoring system, which allows
for a more precise evaluation of action impact, capturing the
subtleties of evolving and uncertain web environments.
This Granular Bifaceted Self-Reward Mechanism evalu-
ates both the effectiveness of the action taken, Seff(at), and
the potential of the resulting observation, Sfut(ot+1), using
a precise 0-10 scoring system. This approach allows for a
more nuanced assessment, capturing subtle differences in
action quality and future potential, which is crucial for de-
termining whether to proceed with the current strategy. Il-
lustrative examples of this novel mechanism are provided in
the Appendix.
Seff(at), Sfut(ot+1) = Appraiser(Effect(at), ot+1,Ti), (5)
where Apprasier assesses how well the state aligns with the
subtaskTi, and Effect(at) represents the change between the
former and current state.
The overall reward Stotal aggregates these scores to repre-
sent the value of the current state:
Stotal(at, ot+1) = weff· Seff(at) + wfut· Sfut(ot+1), (6)
where weff and wfut balance action effectiveness and future
potential.
6

[[page 7]]
After evaluating the current state, Controller determines
whether the subtaskTi is complete,
Ct = Controller(Ti,{a1, a2, . . . , at}, ot+1), (7)
whereCt is a continuation reason based on the executed ac-
tions and current observation. If the subtask is confirmed
complete, the search terminates. Otherwise, DES conducts
a one-step forward simulation guided by RENE, generating
a Simulation ReflectionRsim, which acts as a shallow trial
to provide insights for the next exploration. This process en-
ables the agent to better understand unpredictable transitions
by simulating potential outcomes, which helps clarify ambi-
guities and uncertainties. The quantitative values assigned
through these simulations guide the agent in making more
informed decisions, effectively navigating the most promis-
ing paths while managing unpredictability and incomplete
information.
Maximal Value Backpropagation (MVB) enhances the
traditional MCTS backpropagation step by prioritizing the
most promising paths. Unlike classical MCTS, which typ-
ically averages the values of child nodes and may lead to
the exploration of less optimal paths, MVB uses the maxi-
mum value from all child nodes, max Q(st+1), where Q(s)
represents the potential value for completing the subtask in
state s. For the first visited state, the Q-value is initialized
to the score Stotal as evaluated in DES. This approach ac-
cumulates values throughout the decision tree, consistently
targeting strategies with the highest potential for long-term
success. By focusing on these high-value paths, WebPilot
ensures alignment with the ultimate goal rather than merely
advancing to the next immediate step.
4 Experiment
4.1 Experimental Setup
Datasets and Metrics To demonstrate the broad applica-
bility of WebPilot, we evaluate our method on two bench-
marks: WebArena (Zhou et al. 2023b) and MiniWoB++ (Liu
et al. 2018). WebArena, comprising 812 human-annotated
web tasks, is designed to assess the ability of agents to per-
form actions on complex, realistic websites. These tasks are
diverse, long-horizon, and closely mirror the types of activi-
ties humans routinely engage in online. Notably, WebPilot
operates as a text-only agent, leveraging the accessibility
tree, i.e., actree, of the webpage without relying on visual
observations—a limitation we aim to address in future work.
WebArena is chosen as the primary benchmark due to its
close simulation of real-world web environments. Addition-
ally, we validate WebPilot on MiniWoB++, an environment
offering a range of simpler yet varied web tasks, from basic
interactions like button-clicking to more complex activities
such as form-filling, which require reasoning capabilities.
For evaluation, we use the Success Rate (SR) metric as de-
fined in (Zhou et al. 2023b) for WebArena, and follow (Li
et al. 2023) for MiniWoB++, focusing on 43 tasks that can
be completed solely through text representation.
Baseline Models We compare WebPilot against several
baseline models, including the current SOTA SteP (Sodhi
Algorithm 1: WebPilot
Require: taskT ; max node count nmax
1: HTD: Planner generates a planP ={T1,T2, . . . ,Tn}
2: whileP is not empty do
3: Execute the first subtaskT1 fromP
4: ifT1 involves information extraction then
5: Extractor processes the current observation ot
6: else
7: while nmax is not reached do
8: GOS: Select the target node via Eq. 1
9: RENE: Explorer expands the search tree to the
next state (st+1, ot+1), observes the environ-
ment, and generates reflectionsRct ,Rst
10: if Controller decides to stop the subtaskT1 then
11: break
12: else
13: Controller generates continuation reasonCt
14: end if
15: DES: Appraiser evaluates the current state
Stotal(at, ot+1), and Explorer conducts one step
forward simulation to generate simulation re-
flectionRsim
16: MVB: Backpropagate the reward of the ex-
panded node
17: end while
18: end if
19: RTA: Controller assesses the completeness of the
subtask T1, generates subtask reflection Rsub if
needed and updates the current planP
20: end while
et al. 2024) and the concurrent search-based model LM-Tree
Search (LM-TS) (Koh et al. 2024). We utilize GPT-3.5 and
GPT-4o 1, each configured with a max tokens limit of 4096
tokens, and a temperature setting of 0.3, while all other pa-
rameters are kept at their default values.
Implementation Details We run WebPilot with parame-
ters optimized for both efficiency and performance. Specifi-
cally, we limit the max node count per subtask to 10 and set
the exploration bias at 5 to balance exploration and exploita-
tion. Refer to the Appendix for details.
4.2 Results on WebArena
As shown in Tab. 2, WebPilot consistently outperforms
existing methods. In WebArena, WebPilot with GPT-4o
demonstrates a remarkable 93% relative increase in SR
compared to concurrent tree search-based methods LM-TS,
achieving a 37.2% SR. This performance surpasses the cur-
rent SOTA method, SteP (Sodhi et al. 2024), which relies on
rigid, expert-designed policies tailored to specific states and
actions. This substantial improvement highlights the effec-
tiveness of the adaptable and dynamic approach of WebPilot
in navigating complex web environments.
1GPT-3.5-turbo-0125, GPT-4o-2024-05-13
7

[[page 8]]
Greater Flexibility and Adaptability in WebPilot Com-
pared with SteP, WebPilot demonstrates a significant 7.7%
improvement in the Gitlab domain. This advantage arises
from the strategic use of high-level demonstrations, which
equip the agent with general web domain knowledge rather
than confining it to rigid, expert-designed policies specific
to certain states and actions, as SteP does. The Gitlab do-
main, characterized by its diverse and complex tasks, as
well as dynamic, multi-step scenarios, highlights the abil-
ity of WebPilot to generalize knowledge and adapt strate-
gies in real time. This broader understanding allows WebPi-
lot to more effectively infer and address unseen tasks. Addi-
tionally, the exploratory approach of WebPilot, which mir-
rors human adaptability, facilitates dynamic navigation and
problem-solving in unfamiliar scenarios, further enhancing
its overall performance in uncertain web environments.
Superior Task Performance in WebPilot Through Strate-
gic Decomposition and Reflective Feedback WebPilot
significantly outperforms the search-based method, LM-TS,
particularly in the Reddit and GitLab domains, due to two
key factors. First, the lack of strategic decomposition by the
Planner in LM-TS makes navigating the vast state space
considerably more challenging, as the agent lacks clear guid-
ance, leading to less efficient exploration and poorer perfor-
mance. The importance of this decomposition is highlighted
by the superior results achieved by WebPilot, as demon-
strated by the ablation studies in §4.4. Second, WebPilot
employs hierarchical reflections after each node expansion,
enabling continuous reassessment and refinement of its strat-
egy. Further details can be found in §4.4.
Enhanced Reasoning and Planning Capabilities Remain
Crucial for Improvement Even with the less powerful
GPT-3.5, WebPilot demonstrates a significant improvement
over the WebArena baseline, highlighting its effectiveness
in leveraging MCTS-inspired strategies to navigate complex
environments. However, transitioning from GPT-3.5 to GPT-
4o yields substantial gains, particularly in the Shopping,
Reddit, and GitLab, with SR increases of 11.8%, 6.6%, and
9.4%, respectively. These improvements are largely driven
by the enhanced reasoning and planning capabilities of GPT-
4o, which are crucial for tasks requiring precise inference
and information retrieval in Shopping, as well as for navi-
gating the more complex and diverse environments of Git-
Lab and Reddit. The advanced planning abilities and the ca-
pacity to generalize domain knowledge from limited demon-
strations to unseen tasks enable WebPilot to generate more
effective plans, better understand the environment, and ex-
ecute accurate actions. This underscores the importance of
addressing the core challenges that current LLMs face in
reasoning and planning, suggesting that further enhance-
ments can be achieved with more powerful LLMs.
4.3 Results on MiniWoB++
As shown in Tab. 3, WebPilot achieves results competitive
with the SOTA, SteP. The slight edge of SteP is due to its
use of 10 action-level demonstrations, while WebPilot uses
only 4 high-level demonstrations, leaving exploration to the
Method CMS Map Shop. Red. Git. Avg
GPT-3.5
WebArena (Zhou et al. 2023b) - - - - - 8.9
WebPilot (Ours) 22.0 30.3 25.1 58.5 30.0 29.1
GPT-4o
WebArena (Zhou et al. 2023b) - - - - - 13.1
SteP (Sodhi et al. 2024) 24.2 30.3 36.9 59.4 31.7 33.5
LM-TS (Koh et al. 2024) 16.5 25.8 28.1 10.5 13.3 19.2
WebPilot (Ours) 24.7 33.9 36.9 65.1 39.4 37.2
Table 2: Performance comparison in WebArena. Values rep-
resent SR as percentages. Domains are abbreviated as: Shop.
(Shopping), Red. (Reddit), Git. (Gitlab). SteP uses GPT-4.
Best results are bolded. WebPilot achieves SOTA results,
showing a 93% relative increase over LM-TS.
Method SR
RCI (Kim, Baldi, and McAleer 2024) 94.0%
AdaPlanner (Sun et al. 2024) 92.9%
A zero-shot (Li et al. 2023) 94.9%
SteP (Sodhi et al. 2024) 96.0%
WebPilot (Ours) 95.6%
Table 3: Success rate (SR) on MiniWoB++.
agent. The simplicity of many MiniWoB++ tasks, which re-
quire minimal actions, also reduced the need for extensive
exploration, limiting the advantage of WebPilot. Despite
this, our method proved effective with far fewer demonstra-
tions compared to other LLM-based agents. Detailed analy-
sis of MiniWoB++ can be found in the Appendix.
4.4 Ablation Studies
To evaluate the impact of each component in WebPilot, we
categorized tasks into information-seeking (IS) and website
interaction (WI), including site navigation and content con-
figuration. IS tasks focus on extracting information, while
WI tasks require executing complex action sequences. For
the ablation experiments, we selected 50 IS tasks and 50 WI
tasks where WebPilot successfully completed the objectives.
This selection allowed us to focus on cases where the com-
ponents are functioning optimally, providing a clearer under-
standing of how each component contributes to overall per-
formance. The results, shown in Tab. 4, highlight the critical
role each component plays in the effectiveness of WebPilot.
Notably, WI tasks are more adversely affected than IS tasks,
underscoring the importance of our design in equipping the
agent to handle complex web exploration tasks. Relevant ex-
amples illustrating the following findings are provided in the
Appendix.
IS WI
w/o Child Reflection 74% 70%
w/o Sibling Reflection 72% 60%
w/o Controller 86% 60%
w/o Planner 48% 24%
WebPilot 100% 100%
Table 4: Ablation studies on WebArena.
8

[[page 9]]
Importance of Child Reflection for Maintaining Coher-
ent Thought Processes The Child Reflection mechanism
is crucial for maintaining a coherent thought process dur-
ing exploration, aligning with the principles of Chain-of-
Thought reasoning (Wei et al. 2022). This reflection ensures
that when generating actions for child nodes, the model has
access to the parent node behind previous actions and its in-
tended next steps. This continuity enables the model to pro-
duce more accurate and contextually relevant actions, pre-
serving the logical flow necessary for complex decision-
making. Without Child Reflection, this coherence is dis-
rupted, leading to a significant 30% decline in performance,
particularly in WI tasks, where maintaining a consistent
thought process is essential for success.
Critical Role of Sibling Reflection in Effective and Di-
verse Exploration Sibling Reflection is key to optimiz-
ing exploration within MCTS and expanding into diverse,
promising areas, particularly for complex tasks. By leverag-
ing insights from previously explored sibling nodes, WebPi-
lot reduces redundancy and focuses on high-potential paths,
ensuring valuable solutions are not missed. This mechanism
enhances exploration effectiveness, especially for compli-
cated web interaction tasks, as evidenced by WI tasks being
more affected, as shown in Tab. 4.
Controller is Critical for Subtask Accuracy and High-
Level Decision-Making Controller is crucial for Global
Optimization, enabling the reassessment and refinement of
plans. After each subtask, Controller evaluates its complete-
ness and, in collaboration with Planner, refines the overall
plan. Without Controller, the verification of subtask com-
pletion is significantly compromised, leading to a noticeable
performance decline, particularly in WI tasks. The greater
impact on these tasks, which involve more subtasks, is due to
the higher likelihood of incomplete subtasks as their quan-
tity grows. This underscores the vital role of Controller in
high-level strategic planning and refinement. This finding
highlights the importance of trial-and-error, mimicking hu-
man problem-solving, where Controller serves as a key link
between overarching goals and detailed task execution.
Planner is Essential for Maximizing WebPilot Perfor-
mance in Complex Tasks The removal of Planner signif-
icantly degrades performance, particularly in complex WI
tasks, due to the task complexity and the high number of
subtasks. This decline stems from the inherent difficulty
of MCTS with complex tasks. Task decomposition enables
MCTS to operate more effectively.
4.5 Agent Behavioral Analysis
This section analyzes the behavior of WebPilot to show its
effectiveness in mimicking human strategies, with examples
provided below and additional details in the Appendix.
WebPilot Can Learn Website Functionality by Explor-
ing Unknowns When switching branches in GitLab, the
model first tries a dropdown menu but fails due to too many
options, reflecting its limited web knowledge. By exploring
further, it adapts and successfully finds the correct branch
using the Branch Option in the sidebar, demonstrating its
ability to learn and navigate unfamiliar web environments.
WebPilot Can Continuously Adapt Strategies and Ac-
tions Based on New Observations On certain pages, ele-
ments like ”link Project A” and ”statictext Project A” ap-
pear multiple times in the actree, referring to the same
page. While interacting with the statictext yields no changes,
clicking the link achieves the desired outcome. WebPilot ob-
serves the error with the statictext, adjusts, and shares this
reflection with other nodes, enhancing future decisions and
demonstrating its adaptive learning capacity.
WebPilot Can Resolve Ambiguities Through Iterative
Refinement When tasked with checking ”Merge request
assigned to me”, the initial plan involves accessing the
merge request and filtering results. However, during the first
subtask, WebPilot discovers a more direct path to the goal.
Upon successfully completing this subtask, Controller can
determine that the remaining subtasks have been implicitly
accomplished, demonstrating the ability of WebPilot to iter-
atively refine its strategy to resolve ambiguities.
4.6 Limitation
Despite the substantial progress achieved with WebPilot,
limitations remain that impact its performance and could be
addressed in future work. First, the effectiveness of WebPilot
is limited by the capabilities of LLMs, particularly in accu-
rately understanding and interacting with complex web en-
vironments via text-based actions. Second, the absence of
visual information, which forces the LLM to infer context
typically provided by visual cues, e.g., the number of stars
associated with the item, places additional strain on its per-
formance. These challenges highlight the need for advance-
ments in LLMs and the integration of visual reasoning to
better handle complex web tasks. Refer to the Appendix for
details.
5 Conclusion
We introduce WebPilot, a multi-agent system with a dual op-
timization strategy to enhance the adaptability and effective-
ness of autonomous agents in complex web environments.
By combining global optimization with a tailored MCTS-
based local optimization, WebPilot overcomes the limita-
tions of rigid predefined policies, achieving SOTA results on
WebArena. Our approach marks a significant step forward in
general autonomous agent capabilities, paving the way for
more advanced decision-making in complex environments.
References
Achiam, J.; Adler, S.; Agarwal, S.; Ahmad, L.; Akkaya, I.;
Aleman, F. L.; Almeida, D.; Altenschmidt, J.; Altman, S.;
Anadkat, S.; et al. 2023. Gpt-4 technical report. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2303.08774.
Anthropic, A. 2024. The claude 3 model family: Opus, son-
net, haiku. Claude-3 Model Card, 1.
Browne, C. B.; Powley, E.; Whitehouse, D.; Lucas, S. M.;
Cowling, P. I.; Rohlfshagen, P.; Tavener, S.; Perez, D.;
Samothrakis, S.; and Colton, S. 2012. A survey of monte
9

[[page 10]]
carlo tree search methods. IEEE Transactions on Computa-
tional Intelligence and AI in games, 4(1): 1–43.
Chi, Y .; Yang, K.; and Klein, D. 2024. THOUGHTSCULPT:
Reasoning with Intermediate Revision and Search. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2404.05966.
Coulom, R. 2006. Efficient selectivity and backup operators
in Monte-Carlo tree search. In International conference on
computers and games, 72–83. Springer.
Daw, N. D.; Niv, Y .; and Dayan, P. 2005. Uncertainty-based
competition between prefrontal and dorsolateral striatal sys-
tems for behavioral control. Nature neuroscience, 8(12):
1704–1711.
Deng, X.; Gu, Y .; Zheng, B.; Chen, S.; Stevens, S.; Wang,
B.; Sun, H.; and Su, Y . 2024. Mind2web: Towards a gen-
eralist agent for the web. Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems, 36.
Fu, Y .; Kim, D.-K.; Kim, J.; Sohn, S.; Logeswaran, L.; Bae,
K.; and Lee, H. 2024. Autoguide: Automated generation and
selection of state-aware guidelines for large language model
agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.08978.
Hao, S.; Gu, Y .; Ma, H.; Hong, J.; Wang, Z.; Wang, D.; and
Hu, Z. 2023a. Reasoning with Language Model is Plan-
ning with World Model. In Bouamor, H.; Pino, J.; and Bali,
K., eds., Proceedings of the 2023 Conference on Empirical
Methods in Natural Language Processing, 8154–8173. Sin-
gapore: Association for Computational Linguistics.
Hao, S.; Gu, Y .; Ma, H.; Hong, J. J.; Wang, Z.; Wang, D. Z.;
and Hu, Z. 2023b. Reasoning with language model is plan-
ning with world model. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.14992.
Hart, P. E.; Nilsson, N. J.; and Raphael, B. 1968. A For-
mal Basis for the Heuristic Determination of Minimum Cost
Paths. IEEE Transactions on Systems Science and Cyber-
netics, 4(2): 100–107.
Hong, R.; Zhang, H.; Zhao, H.; Yu, D.; and Zhang, C. 2023.
Faithful Question Answering with Monte-Carlo Planning. In
Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Lin-
guistics.
Jang, Y .; Seo, S.; Lee, J.; and Kim, K.-E. 2021. Monte-carlo
planning and learning with language action value estimates.
In International Conference on Learning Representations.
Kim, G.; Baldi, P.; and McAleer, S. 2024. Language models
can solve computer tasks. Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems, 36.
Kocsis, L.; and Szepesv ´ari, C. 2006. Bandit based monte-
carlo planning. In European conference on machine learn-
ing, 282–293. Springer.
Koh, J. Y .; McAleer, S.; Fried, D.; and Salakhutdinov, R.
2024. Tree Search for Language Model Agents. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2407.01476.
Lai, H.; Liu, X.; Iong, I. L.; Yao, S.; Chen, Y .; Shen,
P.; Yu, H.; Zhang, H.; Zhang, X.; Dong, Y .; et al. 2024.
AutoWebGLM: Bootstrap And Reinforce A Large Lan-
guage Model-based Web Navigating Agent. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2404.03648.
Lenz, D.; Kessler, T.; and Knoll, A. 2016. Tactical coopera-
tive planning for autonomous highway driving using Monte-
Carlo Tree Search. In 2016 IEEE Intelligent Vehicles Sym-
posium (IV), 447–453. IEEE.
Li, T.; Li, G.; Deng, Z.; Wang, B.; and Li, Y . 2023. A Zero-
Shot Language Agent for Computer Control with Structured
Reflection. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.08740.
Liu, E. Z.; Guu, K.; Pasupat, P.; Shi, T.; and Liang, P. 2018.
Reinforcement Learning on Web Interfaces using Workflow-
Guided Exploration. In International Conference on Learn-
ing Representations (ICLR).
Ma, K.; Zhang, H.; Wang, H.; Pan, X.; and Yu, D. 2023.
Laser: Llm agent with state-space exploration for web navi-
gation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.08172.
Pan, J.; Zhang, Y .; Tomlin, N.; Zhou, Y .; Levine, S.; and
Suhr, A. 2024. Autonomous evaluation and refinement of
digital agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.06474.
Prasad, A.; Koller, A.; Hartmann, M.; Clark, P.; Sabhar-
wal, A.; Bansal, M.; and Khot, T. 2023. Adapt: As-needed
decomposition and planning with language models. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2311.05772.
Shinn, N.; Cassano, F.; Gopinath, A.; Narasimhan, K.; and
Yao, S. 2024. Reflexion: Language agents with verbal re-
inforcement learning. Advances in Neural Information Pro-
cessing Systems, 36.
Silver, D.; Schrittwieser, J.; Simonyan, K.; Antonoglou, I.;
Huang, A.; Guez, A.; Hubert, T.; baker, L.; Lai, M.; Bolton,
A.; Chen, Y .; Lillicrap, T. P.; Hui, F.; Sifre, L.; van den
Driessche, G.; Graepel, T.; and Hassabis, D. 2017. Mas-
tering the game of Go without human knowledge. Nature,
550: 354–359.
Sodhi, P.; Branavan, S. R. K.; Artzi, Y .; and McDonald,
R. 2024. SteP: Stacked LLM Policies for Web Actions.
arXiv:2310.03720.
Sun, H.; Zhuang, Y .; Kong, L.; Dai, B.; and Zhang, C.
2024. Adaplanner: Adaptive planning from feedback with
language models. Advances in Neural Information Process-
ing Systems, 36.
Tao, H.; TV , S.; Shlapentokh-Rothman, M.; Hoiem, D.; and
Ji, H. 2023. Webwise: Web interface control and sequen-
tial exploration with large language models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2310.16042.
Team, G.; Anil, R.; Borgeaud, S.; Wu, Y .; Alayrac, J.-B.;
Yu, J.; Soricut, R.; Schalkwyk, J.; Dai, A. M.; Hauth, A.;
et al. 2023. Gemini: a family of highly capable multimodal
models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.11805.
Tian, Y .; Peng, B.; Song, L.; Jin, L.; Yu, D.; Mi, H.; and Yu,
D. 2024. Toward Self-Improvement of LLMs via Imagina-
tion, Searching, and Criticizing. ArXiv, abs/2404.12253.
Wang, L.; Ma, C.; Feng, X.; Zhang, Z.; Yang, H.; Zhang, J.;
Chen, Z.; Tang, J.; Chen, X.; Lin, Y .; et al. 2024. A survey on
large language model based autonomous agents. Frontiers
of Computer Science, 18(6): 186345.
Wang, X.; Li, C.; Wang, Z.; Bai, F.; Luo, H.; Zhang, J.; Jo-
jic, N.; Xing, E. P.; and Hu, Z. 2023. PromptAgent: Strate-
gic Planning with Language Models Enables Expert-level
Prompt Optimization. ArXiv, abs/2310.16427.
10

[[page 11]]
Wei, J.; Wang, X.; Schuurmans, D.; Bosma, M.; Xia, F.;
Chi, E.; Le, Q. V .; Zhou, D.; et al. 2022. Chain-of-
thought prompting elicits reasoning in large language mod-
els. Advances in neural information processing systems, 35:
24824–24837.
Xie, Y .; Goyal, A.; Zheng, W.; Kan, M.-Y .; Lillicrap, T. P.;
Kawaguchi, K.; and Shieh, M. 2024. Monte Carlo Tree
Search Boosts Reasoning via Iterative Preference Learning.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.00451.
Yang, Z.; Li, L.; Lin, K.; Wang, J.; Lin, C.-C.; Liu, Z.; and
Wang, L. 2023. The dawn of lmms: Preliminary explorations
with gpt-4v (ision). arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.17421, 9(1):
1.
Zhang, D.; Huang, X.; Zhou, D.; Li, Y .; and Ouyang, W.
2024. Accessing GPT-4 level Mathematical Olympiad So-
lutions via Monte Carlo Tree Self-refine with LLaMa-3 8B.
ArXiv, abs/2406.07394.
Zhao, Z.; Lee, W. S.; and Hsu, D. 2024. Large language
models as commonsense knowledge for large-scale task
planning. Advances in Neural Information Processing Sys-
tems, 36.
Zheng, L.; Wang, R.; Wang, X.; and An, B. 2023. Synapse:
Trajectory-as-exemplar prompting with memory for com-
puter control. In The Twelfth International Conference on
Learning Representations.
Zhou, A.; Yan, K.; Shlapentokh-Rothman, M.; Wang, H.;
and Wang, Y .-X. 2023a. Language agent tree search unifies
reasoning acting and planning in language models. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2310.04406.
Zhou, S.; Xu, F. F.; Zhu, H.; Zhou, X.; Lo, R.; Sridhar,
A.; Cheng, X.; Ou, T.; Bisk, Y .; Fried, D.; et al. 2023b.
Webarena: A realistic web environment for building au-
tonomous agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.13854.
11

[[page 12]]
Contents
1 Introduction 1
2 Related Work 3
2.1 LLM-Based Autonomous Web Agents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
2.2 LLM-MCTS Applications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
3 Methodology 3
3.1 Promblem Formulation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
3.2 Global Optimization: Adaptive Strategy Refinement through Reflective Adjustment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
3.3 Local Optimization: MCTS-Enhanced Decision Strategies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
4 Experiment 7
4.1 Experimental Setup . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
4.2 Results on WebArena . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
4.3 Results on MiniWoB++ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
4.4 Ablation Studies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
4.5 Agent Behavioral Analysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
4.6 Limitation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
5 Conclusion 9
A Extended Related Works 13
B Experimental Setup 13
B.1 Challenges in WebArena . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
B.2 Characteristics of MiniWoB++ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
B.3 Implementation Details . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
C Additional Illustrative Examples from Ablation Studies 16
C.1 Illustrative Example: Impact of Hyperparameters on Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
C.2 Illustrative Example: Impact of Reward Function . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
C.3 Illustrative Example: Impact of MVB . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
C.4 Illustrative Examples of Ablation Study Findings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
D Illustrative Examples of Agent Behavioral Analysis 20
D.1 Illustrative Example: WebPilot Learning Website Functionality by Exploring Unknowns . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
D.2 Illustrative Example: WebPilot Adapting Strategies Based on New Observations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
D.3 Illustrative Example: WebPilot Resolving Ambiguities Through Iterative Refinement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
D.4 Illustrative Example: High-Level Demos Generalize Better to Unseen Tasks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
D.5 Illustrative Example: Strategic Differences Between WebPilot and SteP . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
E More Discussions on Limitations 21
E.1 Comparative Analysis of Agent Behavior with GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
E.2 Text-based Observation vs. Vision-based Observation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
E.3 Dataset Limitation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
F Algorithm Details 26
F.1 Summary of the Function of Each Agent . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
F.2 Detailed Description of Action Effects Effect (at) in RENE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
F.3 High-level Demonstrations for the CMS Domain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
F.4 Pseudocode for WebPilot . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
12

[[page 13]]
A Extended Related Works
Tab. 1 in the main paper presents a comparison of different agent types. This comparison evaluates these agents against WebPi-
lot, focusing on key features such as Dynamic Interaction, Partially Observable Environments, Non-Fixed Policies, Scalability,
Realistic Web Environments, and Comprehensive Self-Reward Functions.
RAP (Hao et al. 2023a) remains centered on NLP tasks, including Blockworlds, mathematical reasoning, and question
answering. In these tasks, the system state is represented purely in text form, meaning RAP operates without requiring dynamic
interaction and is not suited for partially observable environments. Its reward function is derived from the log probability of
the output of LLMs, with self-evaluation focused solely on the current state. In contrast, our work focuses on designing an
agent capable of interacting dynamically with the environment, particularly in addressing complex, dynamic real-world web
environments. The key challenge in these scenarios is enabling the agent to understand the environment and comprehend the
impact of its actions on that environment. Unlike RAP, which operates in a static text-based context, our approach emphasizes
the importance of real-time interaction and adaptability, allowing the agent to navigate and respond effectively to the evolving
state of the web environment.
LATS (Zhou et al. 2023a) targets tasks like question answering, WebShop, and programming. In the WebShop environment, it
demonstrates dynamic interaction capabilities. However, LATS relies on direct feedback from the environment—using outcome
rewards that indicate task success to compute Q-values, which guide MCTS in its decision-making process. In real-world
applications, such outcome rewards are often unavailable or impractical to obtain. For example, in many web-based tasks, the
immediate success of an action may not be evident, or the outcome may depend on complex, long-term factors such as user
behavior or the cumulative effects of multiple actions. To overcome this challenge, our approach avoids relying on outcome
rewards. Instead, we employ adaptive strategies that allow the agent to learn and adjust its actions based on intermediate
feedback during the task execution. This involves using real-time observations and ongoing assessments to refine decisions
dynamically, enabling the agent to navigate complex environments and make informed decisions without needing explicit
outcome-based rewards.
LLM-MCTS (Zhao, Lee, and Hsu 2024) integrates LLMs with MCTS to plan actions for a home robot within a simulated
environment. This method leverages predefined examples drawn from similar scenarios to guide decision-making for each
action. These examples serve as a heuristic, limiting the ability of agents to dynamically adapt to new, unforeseen situations,
as it primarily relies on historical data to inform decisions. In contrast, WebPilot, though informed by initial guidance through
high-level demonstrations, enables the agent to actively explore and learn from the environment in real time, adjusting its plan
to address unseen tasks, as detailed in §D.4. This allows the agent to dynamically adapt to unseen tasks and complex web
environments, making it more versatile and capable of managing situations where prior examples are not directly applicable.
SteP (Sodhi et al. 2024), the SOTA method on WebArena, excels in executing tasks by dynamically composing a library of
predefined policies, each equipped with dedicated instructions and state-specific action examples. These policies are stacked
and invoked as needed to handle specific subproblems, making SteP effective for structured tasks. However, this reliance on a
predefined library constrains its adaptability, particularly in novel or unforeseen scenarios where the predefined policies may not
apply. In contrast, our approach, while informed by high-level demonstrations, does not depend on static state-specific action
policy libraries. Instead, it empowers the agent to actively explore and learn from the environment in real time, dynamically
adjusting its strategy to handle new and complex tasks. This flexibility allows our method to perform effectively in dynamic
and uncertain web environments, where rigid, predefined policies may fall short.
LM-Tree Search (Koh et al. 2024), a concurrent method, performs tree search within web environments without task de-
composition, leading to scalability challenges as the search tree can become excessively large in complex tasks. It also relies
on sparse reward functions that focus solely on executed actions, often resulting in suboptimal performance in dynamic web
environments where immediate success is not always clear. In contrast, our approach does not rely on sparse rewards. Instead,
it uses a dynamic evaluation strategy that assesses how well actions align with the evolving task state by directly observing
real-time feedback. This continuous evaluation, which considers both the immediate effectiveness of actions and their potential
to achieve the final goal, allows our method to adapt more effectively to complex and uncertain environments, ensuring that the
agent remains responsive to the nuanced and changing nature of web tasks.
B Experimental Setup
To thoroughly assess the capabilities of WebPilot, we conduct experiments in WebArena and MiniWoB++. Note that the web
task environment remains only partially observable. Certain task-relevant elements may not always be visible in the current
view. For example, after several scroll actions when reviewing commit records, the current branch might no longer be visible,
complicating the decision-making process of agents. Additionally, web content can change dynamically, meaning the agent
cannot fully anticipate or know the state of certain elements—like updated content or availability—until it interacts with them.
B.1 Challenges in WebArena
WebArena, derived from real-world websites, serves as a primary benchmark due to its complexity and realism. This envi-
ronment presents several challenges that test the capabilities of WebPilot, each corresponding to a different aspect of human
cognitive flexibility and adaptability.
13

[[page 14]]
[6] RootWebArea 'Projects · Dashboard · GitLab'
[2049] link 'Skip to content'
[2069] link 'Dashboard'
[2734] button '' hasPopup: menu expanded: False
[2112] textbox 'Search GitLab' required: False
[2123] generic 'Use the shortcut key <kbd>/</kbd> to start a search'
[2151] link 'Create new...'
[2164] link 'Issues'
[2163] generic '13 assigned issues'
[2180] link 'Merge requests'
[2173] generic '8 merge requests'
[2192] link 'To-Do List'
[2191] generic 'Todos count'
[2190] StaticText '4'
[2212] link 'Help'
[2226] link 'Byte Blaze'
[2218] image 'Byte Blaze'
[2035] main ''
[33] heading 'Projects'
[39] link 'New project'
[66] link 'Yours 20'
[72] link 'Starred 3'
[75] link 'Explore'
[79] link 'Topics’
. . . 
Figure 5: Comparison between the screenshot and the actree of the start page in Gitlab
Figure 4: Multiple elements have
similar meanings.
Similarity of Elements and Unknown Web Functionality Realistic web environ-
ments, such as those modeled in WebArena, often present challenges due to the simi-
larity of elements and the limited understanding the agent has of specific web function-
alities. As illustrated in Fig. 4, many elements in the sidebar, such as ”Repository” and
”Project Information,” appear semantically related to links like ”Members,” which can
lead the agent to rely on semantic guessing to determine the correct path. Additionally,
the functionality of web elements may not be immediately clear, particularly when the
agent encounters unfamiliar layouts or options. In response to this challenge, WebPilot
first clicks the ”Repository” link to see if the link to the ”Members” page would appear,
but upon finding nothing, it generates a reflection suggesting that it should interact with
other elements and trace back to the previous state. The agent then clicks the ”Project
Information” link to perform the same check, and fortunately, it finds the entrance to
the ”Members” page.
Complexity of Web Elements in Accessibility Tree, i.e., actree The attempt to faithfully reconstruct the environment from
HTML in WebArena results in the accessibility tree, i.e., actree, containing many elements with multiple representations, some
of which are non-interactive. For example, elements like ”link Project A” and ”statictext Project A” may appear multiple times
in the actree, both referring to the same page. While interacting with the statictext does not lead to any changes, clicking the
link achieves the desired outcome. Even when visual information is available, the ambiguity between similar elements remains
a challenge, as the visual cues do not always clearly distinguish functional differences between these elements. When encoun-
tering such situations, WebPilot observes the ineffectiveness of interacting with the statictext, adjusts its strategy, and shares
this reflection with other nodes. This approach allows WebPilot to dynamically adapt its actions based on new observations,
enhancing its decision-making in future scenarios and demonstrating its capacity for adaptive learning. By continuously refin-
ing its strategy, WebPilot is able to navigate complex web environments effectively, even when faced with seemingly identical
elements that require different interactions. An example of the start page in the GitLab domain is shown in Fig. 5.
Long-Horizon Task Complexity Tasks in WebArena often require long-horizon planning, involving an extensive sequence
of actions that challenge the ability of agents to maintain effective reasoning throughout the process. WebPilot overcomes this
challenge by decomposing complex tasks into smaller, more manageable subtasks, each focused on a specific, simpler goal,
and by dynamically adapting its plans based on completed subtasks and new observations. For instance, when a task requires
inviting a user to a specific project, as shown in Fig. 11, the optimal path involves navigating to the target project, entering
the member management pages, and performing the invitation process. Planner of WebPilot divides these steps into individual
subtasks, which are easier to solve sequentially. Without this decomposition, the agent might struggle with the complexity of
the main task. For example, as shown in Fig. 11, SteP can become stuck repeatedly clicking the ”Settings” button because this
action is not adequately covered in its predefined state-specific action policy. Additionally, long-horizon tasks, which require
extended action sequences, are prone to deviations from the optimal path due to execution errors. WebPilot addresses this
by using Controller to ensure each subtask is properly completed, and by treating these subtasks as checkpoints. This allows
WebPilot to revert to a previous state if necessary, avoiding the need to re-execute lengthy tasks and thereby maintaining both
efficiency and accuracy.
14

[[page 15]]
Figure 6: MiniWoB++ Examples.
B.2 Characteristics of MiniWoB++
MiniWoB++ is an environment specifically designed to evaluate the performance of web agents across a range of simpler
yet diverse web tasks. We use this environment to test the applicability of WebPilot in straightforward web tasks and to as-
sess its performance across different environments. However, the simplicity of MiniWoB++ limits the potential for significant
improvements with WebPilot. As shown in Fig. 6, the tasks are strongly instruction-driven and closely aligned with specific
actions, making it easier for agents to identify and execute the correct actions without requiring advanced reasoning or strate-
gic planning. In many cases, these tasks demand only one or two actions to achieve the desired outcome, further reducing
their complexity. The environment in MiniWoB++ is intentionally designed with few elements, as shown in Fig. 7, simplifying
decision-making and minimizing the need for complex reasoning. As a result, the advanced capabilities of WebPilot, which are
optimized for more complex, dynamic environments, do not offer a substantial advantage in MiniWoB++. Consequently, the
performance gains achieved by WebPilot in MiniWoB++ are less pronounced, as these tasks do not necessitate the sophisticated
strategies required in more challenging scenarios like those found in WebArena.
[1] <body>
[3] <div> id: ’area’
[4] <div> text: ’Movie Search’ classes: ’title-div’
[5] <table>
[6] <tbody>
[7] <tr>
[8] <th> text: ’Director’
[9] <td>
[10] <input_text>
[11] <tr>
[12] <th> text: ’Year’
[13] <td>
[14] <input_text>
[15] <tr>
[16] <th> text: ’Genre’
[17] <td>
[18] <input_text>
[19] <div> text: ’Submit’ classes: ’final’
Figure 7: An example of MiniWoB++ DOM elements.
B.3 Implementation Details
For both WebArena and MiniWoB++, the implementation is configured with a maximum node count of 10, an exploration bias
of 5, a search depth limit of 5, and 3 branches. These hyperparameters are selected to balance exploration and efficiency, as
demonstrated in the illustrative example provided in §C.1.
15

[[page 16]]
C Additional Illustrative Examples from Ablation Studies
C.1 Illustrative Example: Impact of Hyperparameters on Performance
Max Node Count nmax Based on our experiments and considering the task complexity in WebArena, we found that setting
the number of max node counts to 10 is optimal. While increasing the number of max node counts can slightly improve success
rates for particularly challenging tasks, it often leads to wasted resources, making it crucial to find the right balance. This
inefficiency arises because many nodes may already be guiding the agent down incorrect paths. Given the tailored design of
MCTS in WebPilot, if promising nodes are not found within the first two layers, it typically indicates that the initial paths are
flawed. In such cases, it is more effective to use Controller to assess task completeness and re-execute the subtask. Conversely,
if nmax is set too low, MCTS may struggle to reach the target node. For example, if a subtask requires two to three actions and
the branching factor is set to 3, at least two to three layers of search are necessary. With only a few nodes explored, the search
may terminate prematurely, missing the correct path.
Num of Branches In MCTS, the number of branches refers to the maximum number of children that a node can expand into.
In classical MCTS algorithms, such as those used for board games, this parameter is often set very high. However, in WebPilot,
we prioritize the first few choices informed by the initial intuition of LLMs, which are generally more valuable. Therefore, we
limit the number of branches. Given the complexity of the WebArena environment, as discussed in §B.1, it remains crucial to
maintain a sufficient number of branches to ensure adequate exploration and accurate decision-making.
Setting the number of branches too high can lead to inefficiencies, as the initial intuition of LLMs tends to provide a more
accurate starting point, effectively narrowing the action space. Expanding into too many branches may result in exploring
irrelevant nodes. Conversely, if the number of branches is too low, there is a risk of missing the correct path, especially when
the initial intuition is off-target. In such cases, the first few explorations are essential for guiding WebPilot in the right direction.
These explorations allow the agent to evaluate the nodes linked to the initial intuition, assigning them lower scores through
DES to avoid revisiting them, and they generate sibling reflections that refine subsequent actions and improve decision-making.
Through extensive testing, we found that the initial intuition of LLMs is often accurate, and the number of relevant elements
for a given subtask is usually no more than three. For example, when WebPilot is tasked with navigating to the ”Members”
page from the homepage of a specific repository, the relevant elements are typically ”Project Information,” ”Repository,” and
”Settings.” Other elements are excluded by LLMs. Therefore, we set the number of branches to 3.
Exploration Bias wpuct The Exploration Bias plays a critical role in shaping the exploration process within the MCTS
framework. Adjusting the Exploration Bias can shift the exploration strategy more toward either a depth-first or breadth-first
search. In the GitLab domain, for instance, the agent needs to navigate to the ”Members” page of a specific project. The link
to this page is not directly visible, requiring the agent to explore the webpage thoroughly. Once the dropdown menu containing
the target link is opened, this node should be assigned a high value Stotal due to its future promise Sfut(ot+1). However, if
the exploration bias is set too high, the agent may be less inclined to move toward this promising node, potentially causing
inefficiencies. Conversely, an appropriately set exploration bias allows Explorer to efficiently direct the search toward the
optimal path.
C.2 Illustrative Example: Impact of Reward Function
Our approach introduces a more nuanced reward function, consisting of two key components: action effectiveness Seff(at) and
the future promise Sfut(ot+1) of the current observation.
Figure 8: Example of Value function.
Action effectiveness Seff(at) assesses how effectively an action con-
tributes to the completion of a subtask. It assigns high scores to actions that
are essential for achieving the goal of the subtask, such as ”bringing up a
dropdown menu” or ”choosing the proper sorting option” when the subtask
is ”sorting items in a specific order”. Conversely, it penalizes actions that are
irrelevant or do not contribute to the objective. For instance, if the goal of
the subtask is to navigate to the homepage of an account in the shopping do-
main, clicking on ”Goods” would not be beneficial and would receive a low
action effectiveness score. This evaluation helps avoid unnecessary actions
and directs WebPilot more efficiently toward its target.
Future promise Sfut(ot+1) is crucial for guiding the exploration of the
agent by indicating whether the current page can lead to the target page. For
instance, if the agent needs to navigate to a specific page and a link to it is
visible in the current state, the evaluator will assign a higher value to this
state, encouraging the agent to explore this page further.
A more detailed example can illustrate how these components work together in practice. As illustrated in Fig. 8, consider a
subtask where the objective is to invite Abishek as a project member. After WebPilot enters Abishek’s name into the textbox,
the action is considered highly effective because it directly addresses a necessary requirement of the subtask. Simultaneously,
16

[[page 17]]
the current observation shows the target user in the dropdown menu, indicating a state with high future promise, as the next
crucial step is to select the target user from the dropdown menu.
<executed action effectiveness>: 9
The executed action is effective as it directly addresses the task requirement and
aligns with the goal of adding Abishek’s username to the invitation dialog. It is a
necessary step in the process.
<future promise>: 8
The current state of the webpage, with Abishek’s username already filled in the
invitation dialog, indicates progress toward the goal. The necessary action has been
completed, and the next steps involve selecting the correct username from the list,
which seems feasible based on the available information.
C.3 Illustrative Example: Impact of MVB
If Maximal Value Backpropagation (MVB) is not utilized and a simple averaging method is employed for backpropagation
instead, the tree search will reach the target state more slowly and may even fail under a limited max node countnmax. Consider
Fig. 9 as an example, where the goal is to navigate to the ”Pages” section of a website. If the “Contents” section is expanded and
the “Pages” link becomes visible, leaving only one step to reach the target, this state would be highly rated. However, without
MVB, this higher score would be partially diluted as it propagates back to the parent node, potentially causing the search to
deviate from this promising path in subsequent explorations, ultimately delaying the achievement of the target. This approach
is particularly crucial for tasks involving website interactions, especially when certain target states are concealed and need to
be uncovered. However, information-seeking tasks also benefit from this design, as many subtasks require exploring the web
interface before extracting key information.
C.4 Illustrative Examples of Ablation Study Findings
Here, we use Fig. 10 to illustrate key findings from the ablation study in the main paper, highlighting the impact of specific
components on the performance of WebPilot.
Illustrative Example: Importance of Child ReflectionRct for Maintaining Coherent Thought Processes The child re-
flection mechanism is essential for maintaining a coherent thought process during exploration, as it aligns with the principles
of Chain-of-Thought reasoning. To illustrate, consider the example in Fig. 10, where the subtask is to ”invite Abishek”. This
subtask involves four sequential actions: bringing up the invite dialog, typing Abishek’s name, selecting the target user from the
dropdown menu, and completing the invitation. The coherence of these actions is critical. For instance, when the invite dialog
is brought up, due to the way WebArena extracts the actree, elements outside the dialog remain visible. Interacting with any
of these other elements would close the dialog, disrupting the process. Similar to selecting the target user from the dropdown
menu. After WebPilot completes the action of typing the username, the child reflection mechanism suggests the next logical
step should be selecting the corresponding menu item to complete the invitation.
<reflection for child>
Since the task aims to invite Abishek, and "Executed Actions" shows a finished action
of typing "Abishek" in the search box, and a dropdown menu including "Abishek"
appears, the next action should be selecting the target username to ensure inviting
him.
This reflection ensures continuity and helps the model generate accurate and contextually relevant actions, preserving the log-
ical flow necessary for complex decision-making. Without child reflection, this coherence would be lost, leading to significant
performance declines, particularly in tasks where maintaining a consistent thought process is critical.
Illustrative Example: Critical Role of Sibling Reflection Rst in Effective and Diverse Exploration Sibling reflection
plays a crucial role in optimizing exploration within MCTS, especially in complex tasks where diverse and effective exploration
is needed. This mechanism allows WebPilot to provide sibling nodes with failure experiences from previous attempts, which
is particularly valuable since these sibling nodes are generated under identical conditions. By sharing insights from explored
paths, sibling reflection helps the agent avoid redundant actions and focus on more promising alternatives.
For instance, in Fig. 10, during the subtask ”Navigate to Member’s Page,” WebPilot initially struggles to locate the correct
link to the ”Members” page. WebPilot chooses to click on ”Repository” in an attempt to find the members page. However,
17

[[page 18]]
State Transition
Simulation
Dashboard
Pages
Subtask:Navigate to page of ”Pages” management
Contents
𝑄=10
𝑄=10
𝑄=10
Start
① ④
⑤ ⑥
⑦
⑧
⑨
②
③
Figure 9: Impact of Maximal Value Backpropagation (MVB) during the Local Optimization stage of WebPilot, illustrating its
role in accelerating convergence to target states by prioritizing high-value paths. This figure provides a detailed view of the
execution process, with Fig. 2 in the main paper, offering a simplified overview. The subtask is ”Navigate to the ’Pages’ site”.
The index numbers beside the screenshots indicate the exploration order within this search process.
18

[[page 19]]
upon realizing that this action led to the ”Files” page instead of the desired ”Members” page, WebPilot generates the following
sibling reflection to guide the subsequent action toward the correct path:
<reflection for sib>
The "Observation Description" does not align with the "Expectation" as the action led
to the "Files" page instead of the "Members" page. The "action_intent" is
appropriate for accessing the members page of the "dotfiles" repository through the
sidebar. To correct this, the next action should be to click on the "Members" link
in the sidebar to navigate to the members page of the "dotfiles" repository.
This reflection allows the agent to adjust its strategy in real time, redirecting its focus to the correct link in the sidebar.
By doing so, WebPilot enhances exploration effectiveness, ensuring that it pursues high-potential paths and avoids repeating
errors. This mechanism is particularly impactful in web interaction tasks, as it enables WebPilot to efficiently navigate through
complex environments by learning from its previous attempts.
Illustrative Example: Significance of Controller in Ensuring Subtask Accuracy and High-Level Decision-Making Con-
troller plays a critical role in WebPilot by determining when to stop a subtask and assessing its completeness Comp i, upon
which it generates the subtask reflection Rsubi. Unlike classical MCTS methods, which focus on selecting the next action
within limited computational resources in a single search process, the goal of WebPilot is to reach the terminal node that satis-
fies the subtask requirements. Therefore, Controller is essential for deciding whether the target node has been reached during
the search, efficiently guiding WebPilot by ending the search when the target is achieved.
Subtask Reflection is generated by Controller after evaluating the execution of the current subtaskTi. Controller is respon-
sible not only for determining when to stop a subtask but also for extracting critical insights from any failed attempts. For
instance, in a task requiring the agent to click on ”All” tabs, the first action might correctly click the appropriate tab, but a sub-
sequent action might mistakenly navigate to an incorrect page. The task is also flagged for termination because the necessary
action of clicking the link ”All” is executed. WhenController analyzes the completeness of the current subtask, it identifies this
error and generates a Subtask Reflection, suggesting that ”clicking ’All’ tabs” should be the final action in similar tasks. This
reflection is then used to guide the re-execution of the subtask, ensuring that the agent avoids previous mistakes and completes
the task accurately. Following is an example of the subtask reflection generated by WebPilot when it is tasked with navigating
to the “Orders” page in the CMS domain but failed on the first attempt:
<subtask reflection>
To successfully complete the task, focus on directly navigating to the "Order Report"
page instead of getting sidetracked by other sections like "Marketing" or "Dashboard
". Pay close attention to the menu options and sub-options to reach the target page
efficiently.
Furthermore, Controller assesses the completeness of the current subtask to determine if the plan requires updating, and then
provides the necessary recommendations/reflection to Planner for plan refinement. For instance, in a task where the objective
is to ”Check out the merge requests assigned to me,” Planner initially generates a plan to navigate to the ”All merge requests”
page and then apply a filter for ”assigned to me.” However, during the execution of the first subtask,Explorer discovers a direct
link to the ”merge requests assigned to me” page on the main interface, effectively completing the task ahead of schedule.
Controller then reassesses the plan, determining that the remaining subtasks are no longer necessary, leading to an update of
the plan. Following is the completeness assessment for this task generated by the Controller:
<task completeness>
The main task of navigating to the All merge requests through the top bar is completed
successfully as the webpage displays merge requests assigned to "Byte Blaze".
Illustrative Example:Essential Role of Planner in Enhancing Performance in Complex Tasks Planner is crucial for
breaking down complex tasks into simpler, focused subtasks, each with a clear goal. This approach prevents the agent from
getting stuck in repetitive actions or being distracted by irrelevant information. In the task shown in Fig. 10, where the goal
is to ”invite Abishek to the ’dotfile’ repository as a guest,” Planner of WebPilot effectively decomposes the task. Without this
guidance, as seen with SteP, the agent might repeatedly navigate to the ”Settings” page, mistakenly assuming it to be the correct
path. The Planner, however, creates a subtask focused on navigating directly to the ”Members” page, allowing the agent to
complete the task more efficiently by avoiding unnecessary actions and staying on course.
19

[[page 20]]
D Illustrative Examples of Agent Behavioral Analysis
Beyond the example provided in §4.5 of the main paper, this section presents additional illustrative examples that demonstrate
the behavior of WebPilot to show its effectiveness in mimicking human strategies.
D.1 Illustrative Example: WebPilot Learning Website Functionality by Exploring Unknowns
The ability of WebPilot to explore unknowns is consistently evident across various tasks. For example, in the CMS domain, a
task requires accessing the ”Pages” management section. Although the link is not immediately visible on the initial dashboard,
WebPilot navigates the sidebar to locate it. This exploratory capability is also demonstrated in tasks involving navigation to
specific pages via sidebar elements, highlighting the proficiency of WebPilot in adapting to and mastering unfamiliar web
environments.
D.2 Illustrative Example: WebPilot Adapting Strategies Based on New Observations
The ability of WebPilot to adapt its strategy is further illustrated in the following scenario. When searching for a user profile in
the GitLab domain, WebPilot initially anticipates the results to be directly related to users. However, the search results default to
displaying information about ”Projects,” with the ”Users” tab hidden. Upon observing the current page layout, WebPilot adapts
its action strategy and suggests clicking the ”Users” tab in its reflection for subsequent steps. This reflection acts as a hint for
future actions, preventing the agent from incorrectly assuming that the user-related results are unavailable based solely on the
initial search outcome.
D.3 Illustrative Example: WebPilot Resolving Ambiguities Through Iterative Refinement
Ambiguity can be divided into two categories: environmental ambiguity and task ambiguity. In §4.5, we discussed how WebPilot
addresses environmental ambiguity. An illustrative example of handling task ambiguity comes from the Reddit domain. The task
is to ”Post in the most appropriate subreddit and ask for recommendations for noise-canceling headphones.” The appropriate
subreddit is not immediately apparent, making it challenging to create a comprehensive plan at the outset. To tackle this,
Planner of WebPilot breaks down the task into a relevant subtask—”Navigate to a relevant subreddit, such as headphones
or shopping”. Explorer then dynamically executes this subtask, selecting the appropriate forum after reviewing the full list
of subreddits. Finally, Controller validates the execution results to confirm whether the desired subreddit has been reached.
This collaborative approach effectively resolves the ambiguity inherent in the task, allowing WebPilot to adaptively navigate
complex decision-making scenarios.
D.4 Illustrative Example: High-Level Demos Generalize Better to Unseen Tasks
High-level demonstrations equip the agent with general web domain knowledge, enabling WebPilot to generate more effective
plans, better understand the environment, and even for tasks not explicitly covered in the demonstrations. For example, in the
Shopping domain, the Planner used these demonstrations, as shown in §F.3 to create a plan for the following task ”Find the
customer name and email with phone number 2137418080”:
<Planner>
Subtask 1: Navigate to the "Customers" page
Subtask 2: Search for the phone number 2137418080
Subtask 3: Extract the customer’s name and email from the search results
Although this specific task is not included in the high-level demonstrations, WebPilot is able to generalize from the provided
examples, effectively applying the domain knowledge to generate a suitable plan. This ability to generalize arises from the
model focusing on overarching strategies rather than rigid state-action pairs, allowing it to adapt to new tasks by leveraging its
understanding of similar tasks. As a result, theExplorer successfully completed the task, along with three additional tasks from
the same template.
D.5 Illustrative Example: Strategic Differences Between WebPilot and SteP
As shown in Tab. 2 of the main paper, WebPilot outperforms the current SOTA agent SteP, particularly in the Gitlab domain.
Below, we analyze the strategic differences between WebPilot and SteP. The trajectory data is provided by SteP.
As Fig. 11 illustrates, SteP repeatedly attempted to navigate to the ”Settings” page of the repository, despite these actions
being clearly ineffective. This behavior reveals a critical limitation of SteP: its reliance on predefined action policies, which
hinder its ability to adapt when those policies fail to produce the desired outcome. The dependence of SteP on static, state-
specific action policies limits its flexibility, causing it to become trapped in a loop of repetitive actions without recognizing the
need to backtrack or explore alternative paths. This shortcoming highlights the importance of dynamic reflection, a mechanism
that WebPilot employs effectively to avoid such pitfalls.
20

[[page 21]]
Figure 10: Example of Specific Screenshot: SteP consists that the ”setting” may lead to the right page for member management
while WebPilot navigates to the ”Member” page.
In contrast, WebPilot successfully completed the task by decomposing it into several subtasks using Hierarchical Task De-
composition (HTD), where each subtask focused on a singular, well-defined goal. For instance, when tasked with navigating
to the ”Members” page, WebPilot avoided distractions by isolating this subtask from the broader task, allowing it to proceed
directly to the target. This focused approach not only improved task efficiency but also ensured that WebPilot could adapt to
unforeseen challenges by continuously reassessing and refining its strategy in real time. As shown in Fig. 10, SteP is unable
to move beyond the repetitive ”Settings” action, ultimately becoming stuck. However, WebPilot leveraged its exploration ca-
pabilities to correctly identify and navigate to the appropriate target page, demonstrating the advantage of its flexible, adaptive
strategy over the more rigid, policy-driven approach of SteP.
Without task decomposition, SteP tends to focus solely on the main task, overlooking important details within it. For example,
as shown in Fig. 12, after reaching a specified forum, SteP repeatedly clicked ”UPVOTE” without achieving the intended
outcome, ultimately halting its operation. This behavior indicates that when operating outside of its predefined policies, SteP
functions like a typical agent, prone to repeating the same errors. In contrast, WebPilot flexibly assesses all aspects of the main
task, prioritizes necessary actions, and executes them effectively.
Another example is illustrated in Fig. 13, where agents are tasked with extracting the information of the contributor who has
made the most commits to a specific branch “main” as an IS task. Starting from the repository homepage, SteP navigated directly
to the “Contributors” page and immediately provided an answer without correctly setting the branch. Although it received a
reward for success, this is purely coincidental—the top contributor of the “development” branch, the default branch, happened
to be the same as the top contributor of the “main” branch. This issue reflects a common problem observed in realistic web
environments, such as those in WebArena (Zhou et al. 2023b), where GPT-4 agents often latch onto the first piece of related
information they encounter without fully verifying its relevance or accuracy. However, WebPilot addresses this challenge by
utilizing HTD to decompose tasks systematically, ensuring no critical details are overlooked. For instance, the first subtask, “set
the branch to ‘main’,” guaranteed that the information provided met the task requirements accurately.
E More Discussions on Limitations
E.1 Comparative Analysis of Agent Behavior with GPT-3.5 and GPT-4
Case 1: Environment Understanding Compared to GPT-3.5, GPT-4 demonstrates a significantly more accurate understand-
ing of environments. This is particularly evident when dealing with pages containing items with similar attributes. For instance,
on a page with multiple orders, each having its own status—such as ”Cancelled,” ”Complete,” and ”Pending”— GPT-4 is no-
tably more effective at selecting a specific order based on a given attribute value. A detailed example of this can be found in
E.2.
21

[[page 22]]
Simulation
...
Subtask 1: 
Navigate to ‘dotfiles’ repository
Subtask 2: 
Navigate to theMember’s
pageof ‘dotfile’ repo.
Subtask 3: Invite ‘Abishek’
Task: Abishek wants to check my dotfile configurations. Please invite him to the repo as a guest
Screenshot-action-Q
SteP WebPilot
481
.
.
.
...
...
...
...
To achieve this, I need to locate and interact with 
the 'dotfiles' repository element 
ACTION: click link ‘dotfile’
To invite Abishek as a guest we need to navigate 
to the specific project. From the observation, 
the project named dotfiles is listed
ACTION: click link ‘dotfile’
To invite Abishek as a guest to the repository, we 
need to access the repository settings where 
member invitations can be managed.
ACTION:click link ‘Settings’
To invite Abishek as a guest to the repository, we 
need to access the repository settings where 
member invitations can be managed.
ACTION:click link ‘Settings’
To invite Abishek as a guest to the repository, we 
need to access the repository settings where 
member invitations can be managed.
ACTION:click link ‘Settings’
The current observation is on the 'dotfiles' project 
page, displaying project-specific information.
ACTION:click link ‘Project Information’
The 'Project information' link seems most likely to lead to the page as 
it typically contains details about the project and its members.
ACTION:click link ‘Members’
To bring up the member invitation dialog and proceed 
with inviting new members or groups to the repository
ACTION:click button ‘Invite Members’
To input Abishek's username into the invitation dialog
ACTION:type 
textbox ‘Username or Email address’‘Abishek’
The next action should involve selecting Abishek's username 
from the dropdown menu to ensure it is added correctly.
ACTION:click menuitem ‘Abishek’
The next step is to finalize the invitation process by interacting 
with the 'Invite' button in the dialog for inviting members. 
ACTION:click button ‘Invite’
...Max actions limit reaches
Failed
Success!
Figure 11: Example trajectories on WebArena for SteP (left) and WebPilot (right). Task: ”Invite Members”.
22

[[page 23]]
Simulation
Simulation
Subtask 1: 
Navigate to ‘books’ forum
Policy: 
find_subreddit 
[books]
Subtask 2: 
 Sort the posts by newest
Subtask 3:
 Upvote the newest post
Task:Upvote the newest post in books subreddit
SteP WebPilot
404
.
.
.
I need to navigate to the Forums page where I can 
access a list of all subreddits.
ACTION:click link ‘Forums’
we need to navigate to the alphabetical list of all 
subreddits
ACTION:click link ‘Alphabetical’
From the observation, the link for the subreddit 
'books' is visible and clickable
ACTION:click link ‘books’
The newest post in the subreddit based on the 
timestamps …This is the most recent date
ACTION:click button ‘Upvote’
From the observation, the newest post is titled … 
The button to upvote this post has an id [2455]
ACTION:click button ‘Upvote’
The newest post is titled … This is the most 
recent post listed.
ACTION:click button ‘Upvote’
The current page doesn’t show any subreddit, I need to 
navigate to all Forums page to access ‘book’ forum
ACTION:click link ‘Forums’
I aim to access the full list of current subreddits by clicking 
on the 'Alphabetical' link.
ACTION:click link ‘Alphabetical’
I will choose the 'books' link as it directly 
corresponds to the 'books' subreddit
ACTION:click link ‘books’
The simulation reflection highly suggests clicking 
the ‘Sort by’ button. I will continue do so.
ACTION:click button ‘Sort by: Hot’
The reflection suggests choosing the ’new’ item. From 
the appeared elements, I need to click link ‘New’
ACTION:click link ‘New’
I will interact with the 'Upvote' button of the newest 
post titled 'Adults reading to each other out loud?'
ACTION:click button ‘Upvote’
...
...
...
...
Max actions limit reaches
Failed
Success!
Figure 12: Example trajectories on WebArena for SteP (left) and WebPilot (right). Task: ”Upvote the newest post”.
23

[[page 24]]
Simulation
...
Subtask 1: 
Set branch to “Master”
Subtask 2: 
Navigate to “Contributors” page
Subtask 3:
Extract the information: 
email address of the contributor who has the most commits
Task:Tell me the email address of the contributor who has the most commits to branch main
SteP WebPilot
784
Since we are currently on the project's main page, the 
next step is to navigate to the repository section where 
we can find details about commits and contributors.
ACTION:click link ‘Repository’
we first need to access the "Contributors”… 
From there, we can identify the top contributor 
and find their email address.
ACTION:click link ‘Contributors’
We can see the contributors and their respective commit counts 
along with their email addresses. The contributor with the highest 
number of commits is "SecUpwN with 381 commits, and the email 
address provided is "secupwn@users.noreply.github.com". We 
can directly provide this information as the answer.
ACTION:Stop [secupwn@users.noreply.github.com]
I need to interact with an element that allows me to 
change the branch setting.
ACTION:click button 'development' hasPopup: menu’
Since the 'development' branch dropdown menu has been 
opened but the 'master' branch has not been selected yet, 
the next action should involve selecting the 'master' branch
ACTION:click menuitem 'master’
I need to interact with the 'Contributors' link in the 
sidebar as it is likely to lead to the contributor page.
ACTION:click link ‘Contributors’
The email address of the contributor who has the most 
commits to branch main is located in the 'heading' section 
where contributors' names and email addresses are listed 
with their commit counts
ACTION:None
...
Success!
Success!
But under the wrong branch
Figure 13: Example trajectories on WebArena for SteP (left) and WebPilot (right). Task: ”Extract Contributor email address”.
24

[[page 25]]
[6211] row ''
[6184] gridcell '000000189' required: False
[6187] gridcell '5/2/23' required: False
[6191] gridcell '$754.99' required: False
[6194] gridcell 'Pending' required: False
[6209] gridcell 'View OrderReorder' required: False
[6201] link 'View Order'
[6207] link 'Reorder'
[6242] row ''
[6215] gridcell '000000188' required: False
[6218] gridcell '5/2/23' required: False
[6222] gridcell '$2,004.99' required: False
[6225] gridcell 'Pending' required: False
[6240] gridcell 'View OrderReorder' required: False
[6232] link 'View Order'
[6238] link 'Reorder'
. . . 
Figure 14: Example of an order number recognition task: The agent must identify and provide the order number of the most
recent pending order, in this case, 000000189.
Case 2: Utilizing the ”Scroll” Action to Explore We observe that WebPilot, when powered by GPT-4, is more adept at
exploring environments using the ”Scroll” action. A notable example is in the task of modifying a user’s homepage, where
the target textbox only becomes visible after scrolling down within the profile settings page. While WebPilot with GPT-3.5
struggles with this operation and fails to execute it successfully, GPT-4 handles it with greater effectiveness.
Case 3: Plan Generation for Unseen Tasks While high-level demonstrations are beneficial for generating plans for unseen
tasks, we observe that WebPilot with GPT-4 still outperforms GPT-3.5 in planning. This is evidenced by the generally higher
success rates. Notably, in certain task templates where GPT-3.5 struggles to generate effective plans, GPT-4 demonstrates
significantly improved results.
Case 4: Knowledge Precision In the Map domain, for the task ”Show me the path and travel time from the Big Apple to
the biggest city in Maine”, we encourage Planner to leverage its built-in knowledge—specifically the knowledge embedded
within the LLM—to generate a plan for searching the route between ”New York” and ”Portland”. While WebPilot with GPT-4
successfully generates the correct plan, WebPilot with GPT-3.5 struggles to output the correct city names.
E.2 Text-based Observation vs. Vision-based Observation
When processing text-based web observations, such as actrees, LLMs often interpret page content based on proximity princi-
ples. For instance, when asked to identify the order number of the most recent pending order, the correct answer should have
been 189, as shown in Fig. 14. However, due to the layout of the text—where a different element is positioned closer—the LLM
incorrectly identified the order number, resulting in an erroneous interpretation.
The challenge with text-based comprehension arises from the absence of visual context, which limits the ability of the agent
to accurately interpret spatial relationships and distinguish between textually similar elements. Unlike humans, who can easily
parse a webpage by leveraging visual cues such as color, layout, and spacing, LLMs rely solely on textual information. This
reliance on text makes it difficult for the model to discern the correct relationships between elements, especially when similar
or related items are positioned close to each other, increasing the likelihood of misinterpretation.
Additionally, certain visual information cannot be adequately represented through actrees, further complicating the ability
of LLM to accurately interpret web content. For example, in the task ”Tell me the full names of the repositories where I made
contributions and they got more than 100 stars”, the star information is presented solely as a link with a numeric value and an
”image” item in the actree, as shown in Fig. 15. The lack of visual representation makes it impossible for the LLM to correctly
extract and interpret this information.
25

[[page 26]]
[467] heading 'Byte Blaze / a11y-syntax-highlighting’
 [468] link 'Byte Blaze / a11y-syntax-highlighting'
[473] generic 'Public - The project can be accessed without any authentication.'
[479] StaticText 'Owner'
[482] generic 'lipstick’
 [1432] StaticText '
💄'
[483] StaticText ' Accessible light and dark syntax highlighting themes'
[500] link ‘1’
 [470] image ''
[506] link ‘0’
 [475] image ''
[512] link ‘0’
 [480] image ''
[518] link ‘1’
 [484] image ''
[526] StaticText 'Updated '
. . . 
Figure 15: Screenshot and actree representation of the star information in the task ”Tell me the full names of the repositories
where I made contributions and they got more than 100 stars”.
E.3 Dataset Limitation
Element Not Directly Observable On certain pages of WebArena, the state changes of specific elements are not effectively
conveyed through the actree. For example, on the issue inspection page, clicking the ”Open,” ”Closed,” or ”All” tabs triggers
different filters that display the status of various issues. However, despite significant changes in the content displayed, the text-
based state of the tab elements themselves remains unchanged. As a result, the agent, which relies on comparing the state of
the target element before and after execution, may incorrectly interpret the action as a failure. Fig. 16 shows the possible issue
filtering tabs and their text-based representation, with no additional annotations to indicate their states.
[64] link 'Open 13'
[72] link 'Closed 53'
[80] link 'All 66'
[105] link 'Subscribe to calendar'
[125] button 'Recent searches'
[1811] button 'Assignee = Byte Blaze'
Figure 16: Example of unchanged elements: ”Open,” ”Closed,” and ”All” tabs on the issue inspection page in WebArena.
Invisible Dropdowns In several domains within WebArena, there have been instances where certain dropdown menus fail to
expand, limiting the performance of WebPilot in specific tasks.
F Algorithm Details
F.1 Summary of the Function of Each Agent
Agent Functions
Planner Plan Generation; Plan Refinement
Controller Subtask Termination Judgment; Subtask Completion Assessment; Strategic Reflection Generation
Extractor Information Extraction
Explorer Action Generation; Observation Analysis; Tactical Reflection Generation
Apprasier State Assessment
Verifier Action Formatting; Action Deduplication
Table 5: Summary of the Function of Each Agent.
F.2 Detailed Description of Action Effects Effect (at) in RENE
After executing an action,Explorer assesses the resulting changes in the environment, referred to as the action effect Effect(at).
This effect is then compared with the intended outcomeIt by Appraiser to determine how effectively the action has achieved
its goal.
26

[[page 27]]
The assessment process begins by checking whether the base URLs of the previous and current web pages are identical. If
the base URLs differ, it indicates that the agent has navigated to a new page. In such cases, WebPilot focuses on describing the
new web page to ascertain the current location of the agent. Conversely, if the base URLs remain unchanged, it suggests that
only elements on the current page have been modified. In this scenario, Explorer prompts the agent to describe these minor
changes, such as the opening of a dropdown menu. WebPilot then specifies the location of the dropdown and identifies any new
elements that have appeared, which are likely to be relevant for subsequent interactions. This process ensures that WebPilot
remains responsive and context-aware in its exploration.
However, it is important to note that in dialogue scenarios, subtle differences in natural language expressions often have less
impact on the overall conversation. Consequently, models may tend to overlook minor variations in their observations, a chal-
lenge highlighted in WebArena (Zhou et al. 2023b). These distinct prompts—”What kind of page is reached?” for new pages
and ”What elements have changed?” for modifications within the same page—guide Explorer in accurately identifying and ar-
ticulating the specific changes that have occurred, thereby enhancing the ability of WebPilot to navigate dynamic environments
effectively.
F.3 High-level Demonstrations for the CMS Domain
Example 1:
**Main Task **: ’Generate a tax report for 2022 Q3.’
**Decomposed Plan **:
[
{REASONING PROCESS}
’subtask’: ’Bring up the ’REPORTS’ section’,
{REASONING PROCESS}
’subtask’: ’Navigate to ’Tax Report’ page’,
{REASONING PROCESS}
’subtask’: ’Set date range from 7/1/2022 to 30/9/2022 and generate the
report. ’,
]
Example 2:
**Main Task **: ’Edit the product ’Nike Flyknit running shoes’, set its weight
to 0.3 kg and reduce the price by $10.’
**Decomposed Plan **:
[
{REASONING PROCESS}
’subtask’: ’Navigate to the ’Products’ page’,
{REASONING PROCESS}
’subtask’: ’Search for the product ’Nike Flyknit running shoes’ and access
its detailed page’,
{REASONING PROCESS}
’subtask’: ’Set the weight of the product to 0.3 kg’,
{REASONING PROCESS}
’subtask’: ’Set the price of the product to $99’,
]
Example 3:
**Main Task **: ’Find order 221 and send the confirmation email to the
customer’
**Decomposed Plan **:
[
{REASONING PROCESS}
’subtask’: ’Navigate to the ’Orders’ page’,
{REASONING PROCESS}
’subtask’: ’Search for order ID 000000221. ’,
{REASONING PROCESS}
’subtask’: ’Navigate to the detail view page of the order 000000302’,
{REASONING PROCESS}
’subtask’: ’Send the confirmation email to the customer’,
]
27

[[page 28]]
Example 4:
**Main Task **: ’Edit the page ’Order Received’ to ’Thanks for choosing us’. ’
**Decomposed Plan **:
[
{REASONING PROCESS}
’subtask’: ’Navigate to the ’Pages’ section’,
{REASONING PROCESS}
’subtask’: ’Navigate to the edit page of the ’Order Received’ page’,
{REASONING PROCESS}
’subtask’: ’Change the title ’Order Received’ to ’Thanks for choosing us’. ’,
]
F.4 Pseudocode for WebPilot
28

[[page 29]]
Algorithm 2: WebPilot
Require: taskT ; max node count nmax; maximum scroll time nscrollmax; environmentE; transition function F; time t = 0 ;
exploration bias wpuct; state sinitial; observation oinitial; action at =∅; planP =∅; finished subtasksP′ =∅ historyH =∅;
action spaces A
1: s0← −sinitial, o0← −oinitial
2:{T1,T2, . . . ,Tn}← −Planner(T , oinitial, demonstrations) ▷ HTD
3:P← −{T1,T2, . . . ,Tn}
4: whileP̸ =∅ do
5: Ti← −P.pop(0)
6: nscroll← −0
7: ifTi involves information extraction then
8: while n < n scrollmax do
9: if Answer← −Extractor(Ti, ot) then
10: break
11: else if ascroll← −Extractor(Ti, ot) then
12: st+1, ot+1← −F(ascroll, st)
13: t← −t + 1
14: end if
15: n← −n + 1
16: end while
17: else
18: while n < n max do
19: n← −n + 1
20: t← −0,H← −∅
21: while N (st) > 0 do
22: N (st)← −N (st) + 1 ▷ GOS
23: at← −arg maxa∈At

Q(st, a) + wpuct
√P
b N (st,b)
1+N (st,a)

24: Ht+1← −[Ht, at]
25: st+1, ot+1← −F(at, st)
26: t← −t + 1
27: end while
28: at,It← −Explorer(ot,Ti, Ht,{Rsimt ,Rpt ,Rst ,Rsub},Ct−1) ▷ RENE
29: Ht+1← −[Ht, at]
30: st+1, ot+1← −F(at, st)
31: Effect(at)← −Explorer(ot+1, ot,It)
32: Rct ,Rst← −Explorer(Effect(at),Ti, Objectivei, ot+1,Ht)
33: Seff(at), Sfut(ot+1)← −Appraiser(Effect(at), ot+1,Ti) ▷ DES
34: Stotal(at, ot+1)← −weff· Seff(at) + wfut· Sfut(ot+1)
35: Q(st+1)← −Stotal(at, ot+1)
36: Ct← −Controller(Ti,Ht+1, ot+1)
37: if Ct indicates stop then
38: break
39: end if
40: at+1sim,It+1sim← −Explorer(ot+1,Ti,Ht+1,Ct)
41: st+1sim, ot+1sim← −F(at+1sim, st+1)
42: Effect(at+1sim)← −Explorer(ot+1sim, ot+1,It+1sim)
43: Rsim← −Explorer(Effect(at+1sim),Ti, ot+1sim, [Ht+1, at+1sim])
44: for t′← −t, . . . ,0 do
45: Q(st′)← −max(Q(st′+1), Q(st′)) ▷ MVB
46: end for
47: end while
48: end if
49: Compt,Rsub← −Controller(Ti,Ht+1, ot+1) ▷ RTA
50: if Compt indicates complete then
51: s0← −st+1, o0← −ot+1
52: P′← −[P′,Ti]
53: end if
54: P← −Planner(P, Compt)
55: end while
29