[[page 1]]
Affordance-Compiled Intelligence:
Observable-Only Cognitive Impedance Matching
for No-Meta LLM-Integrated Systems
K. Takahashi
ORCID: 0009-0004-4273-3365
May 11, 2026
Abstract
Large language model (LLM) applications increasingly operate as compound systems: a fixed
model-policy is embedded into retrievers, memories, tools, execution sandboxes, validators, policies,
authority controls, and traces. The same model can display sharply different operational capability
depending on how the world is surfaced to it. This paper developsCognitive Impedance Matching
Theory(CIMT), an observable-only and no-meta protected compiler theory foraffordance-compiled
intelligence. CIMT treats system-level capability amplification as a world-side compilation problem:
a raw partially observed task world and raw infrastructure are transformed into a model-relative
executable affordance field whose observations, typed handles, validators, repair paths, rollback
modes, authority scopes, context summaries, and receipts are matched to the model-policy’s existing
strengths and failure modes. The theory does not rely on an absolute evaluator, a privileged
semantic oracle, a privileged human evaluator, an LLM judge, or hidden access to ground truth.
Operational claims are measurable functions of committed observable ledgers, fixed target-evaluation
channels, target-firewalled projections, predeclared calibrators, deterministic reducers, certificate
calculi, and finite-sample or sequential lower certificates. Every evaluator, including a human
reviewer, is treated only as a named, fallible measurement channel with declared scope, interface,
and error or debt bounds when such bounds are available.
Capability improvement is defined over explicitclaim objects: scope, target channel, workload,
fixed model-policy, budget, protected boundary, receipt tier, estimand, promotion profile, confidence
allocation, and declared debt obligations. Each claim is supported by anevidence objectthat
records ledger fields, reducers, certificate events, an evidence dependency graph, a validity budget
ledger, receipt obligations, conformance envelopes, model-policy envelopes, artifact I/O manifests,
and availability evidence. The primary evidence is a direct paired target-channel loss certificate
comparing a candidate compiler against a baseline under an observable experiment protocol with
committed task sampling, world snapshots, randomization, interference controls, target holdout
discipline, and reducer commitments. Stronger claims pass through aconservative certificate
calculus: certificate events are allocated confidence or e-process budgets, heterogeneous uncertainty
is represented as bounded debt, inadmissible debt, or unsupported obligation, compensable tradeoffs
are checked by a monotone acceptance predicate, and non-compensable coordinates are checked by an
explicitforbiddencoordinatesetdeterminedbythepromotionprofile. Scalartarget-failure-equivalent
debt reduction is a special case, not the foundation. Explanatory claims about which compiler pass
caused the improvement require separate observable ablation certificates. Cognitive impedance is a
measurable diagnostic vector with declared estimators, confidence intervals, calibration domains,
and protected dimensions; impedance reduction is useful for diagnosis and experiment design but is
not sufficient for promotion. Durable or irreversible promotion is non-promotable when protected,
open-world, scope, evidence-graph, or target-leakage debt is unbounded or unestimated. The paper
therefore separates certification rules from substantive theorems, gives sample-size and construction-
1

[[page 2]]
cost requirements for the main certificates, and proves only bounded claims about paired target
improvement, bridge correction, candidate-search correction, handle capacity, macro reliability
under failure-mode covers, repair contraction under verifiable drift, scope-closure reachability, and
world-side amplification separation without independence assumptions.
Keywords:LLM agents; compound AI systems; affordance compiler; cognitive impedance; no-meta;
observable-only; target validity; paired lower certificate; authority lattice; policy automata; runtime
verification; tool safety; receipt sufficiency; fail-closed repair.
Operational Checklist
A CIMT claim is reviewable only when the following objects are present in the ledger or in archived
commitments: a claim object, an evidence object, a target-channel protocol, a paired comparison
protocol, a debt classification, a promotion profile with forbidden coordinate sets, a receipt tier,
a conformance envelope, a model-policy envelope, and a scope-closure certificate. The checklist is
intentionally shorter than a machine-readable schema; implementations may export these fields as
JSON, but the paper’s formal content is carried by the definitions and results below.
Object Required observable content
Claim Scope, target channel, workload, fixed model-policy, budget, protected
boundary, estimand, promotion profile, confidence budget, and required
bridge or debt obligations.
Evidence Ledger fields, reducers, certificate events, evidence dependency graph,
receipt obligations, conformance envelopes, model-policy envelopes, and
availability evidence.
Decision Direct paired target-channel lower certificate, vector debt reducer,
forbidden-coordinate check, protected-floor status, scope closure, and
receipt sufficiency.
Failure report Bounded debt, inadmissible debt, unsupported obligation, or explicit
non-promotability for the original claim.
2

[[page 3]]
Contents
1 Introduction 5
1.1 Contributions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
2 Related Work and Non-Overlap 7
2.1 Compound AI Systems . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
2.2 Retrieval, Reasoning, Tool Use, and Memory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
2.3 Agent-Computer Interfaces . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
2.4 Affordances and HCI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
2.5 Temporal Abstraction and Hierarchical Control . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
2.6 Contracts, Runtime Verification, and Program Repair . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
2.7 Information Theory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
2.8 Sequential and Anytime-Valid Inference . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
2.9 Observable-Only Workflow Governance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
2.10 Non-Overlap with Adjacent Theory Classes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
3 Layered Architecture 9
4 Trace Systems, Claim Scopes, and Target Channels 9
4.1 Raw Task Worlds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
4.2 Task Distributions and Observable Shift . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
4.3 No-Meta Claim Stratification . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
5 Executable Affordance Fields 29
5.1 Effect Algebra . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
5.2 Manifest and Receipt Schemas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
6 Observable Execution Semantics and Fail-Closed Transitions 35
6.1 Observable Operational States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
6.2 Transition Cycle . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
6.3 Resource-Scoped TOCTOU Control . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
7 Validators, Target Channels, and Obligation Coverage 37
8 Authority, Policy Automata, and Taint 38
9 Validated Capability, Paired Comparison, and Search Correction 39
9.1 Target-Channel Outcomes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
9.2 Direct Paired Difference . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
9.3 Claim-Specific Vector Promotion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
10 Cognitive Impedance and Promotion Scope 42
11 Affordance Compiler Correctness 47
12 Main Result: No-Meta Protected Promotion 48
13 Component Attribution by Observable Ablation 51
14 Non-Regression and Infrastructure Isolation 52
3

[[page 4]]
15 Handle Selection, Capacity, and Staged Exposure 53
15.1 Set-Valued Handle Selection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
16 Failure-Budget Horizon Compression 53
17 Repair, Rollback, and Scope-Closed Quarantine 54
18 Context Packing and Summary Loss 56
19 Effect-Safe Contract Composition and Receipt Sufficiency 57
20 Transfer Stability and Limits 59
21 Operational Complexity and Minimal Abstract Example 60
22 Failure Modes and Impossibility 65
23 Interoperability with Other Theories 66
24 Design Principles Derived from the Theory 66
25 Discussion 67
25.1 Why Model Intelligence and System Intelligence Diverge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
25.2 Why Human-Facing UI Is Not Agent UI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
25.3 Why No-Meta Requires Target Humility . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
25.4 Why CIMT Remains Complementary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
26 Conclusion 68
4

[[page 5]]
1 Introduction
LLM applications are increasingly compound systems rather than isolated model calls. A model is
embedded into retrieval systems, tool APIs, code interpreters, browsers, memory stores, workflow
policies, validators, security controls, and ledgers. Retrieval-augmented generation changes the model’s
access to external information [1]. ReAct interleaves reasoning and acting so that external observations
can correct a trajectory [3]. Toolformer studies API calls as an augmentation to language modeling
[4]. DSPy treats language-model pipelines as declarative programs compiled against metrics [6].
MemGPT frames long-context operation as virtual context management [7]. AutoGen uses multi-agent
conversation as an application construction pattern [8]. Voyager accumulates executable skills in an
embodied environment [9]. SWE-agent shows that an agent-computer interface can materially affect
repository navigation, editing, and test execution [10]. Tool protocols such as the Model Context
Protocol make external data and tools accessible while making authority and tool-safety issues explicit
[11]. Automated research agents show that hypothesis generation, execution, analysis, and writing can
be packaged into end-to-end agentic workflows [12].
These systems suggest a general phenomenon: a fixed model-policy’s realized capability is strongly
affected by the form in which the world is presented to it. A raw shell, a large repository, a browser
UI, a scientific question, or an unstructured document collection can impose unrecorded state, long
dependency chains, poorly separated actions, irreversible side effects, delayed validation, ambiguous
authority, and context pollution. Conversely, the same operational surface can be repackaged into typed
actions, typed handles, local validators, reversible micro-commits, staged menus, explicit authority
scopes, and auditable receipts. The model-policy has not changed, but the system’s target-channel
behavior can change.
CIMT formalizes this phenomenon asworld-side capability amplification. The central object is an
executable affordance field: the model-facing surface through which observations, actions, validators,
repair operators, rollback modes, summaries, authority scopes, and receipts are exposed. Anaffordance
compilertransforms a raw task world and raw infrastructure into such a field for a fixed model-policy.
The compiler is useful only when observable paired certificates show that it improves target-channel
capability under a fixed budget without worsening non-compensable protected dimensions.
The theory is no-meta. It does not assume that a human, an LLM judge, a benchmark, or a
hidden semantic oracle can decide final truth. A fixed target evaluator is merely a channel. It may
be a test suite, a schema checker, a proof checker, a sandbox simulator, an external observation, a
human review process, or a delayed deployment signal; none of these channels is privileged. This is
especially important for LLM-as-judge protocols, whose empirical usefulness does not remove their
known bias and inconsistency risks [39, 40]. CIMT can reason about such a channel only if its interface
and outputs are recorded and if its limitations are explicitly treated as measurement error or debt.
Primary operational claims are therefore claims aboutobservable target-channel loss or success, not
metaphysical correctness. If a calibration process relates the target channel to another observable
reference channel, that bridge bound can be subtracted or represented as vector debt; if no such bound
is available, CIMT refuses to promote the stronger claim.
The main thesis is deliberately bounded:
For a declared claim object with fixed model-policy, fixed target protocol, fixed estimand,
fixed budget, fixed workload scope, fixed protected boundary, and fixed promotion profile,
validated system capability can be certified to improve when a raw task world is compiled
into a model-relative operation field that reduces observable mismatch in handle selection,
horizon structure, validation distance, repair locality, context packing, and auditability,
5

[[page 6]]
provided that the claim’s monotone acceptance predicate accepts the certified improvement
andboundedcompensabledebt, andeverynon-compensableforbiddencoordinateiscertified
zero.
The theory is not a universal claim. A compiler can make a system worse by exposing too many
tools, hiding relevant state, using proxy validators, claiming false reversibility, allowing untrusted
metadata to influence selection, or summarizing away task-relevant information. CIMT is therefore
framed as a protected compiler theory: it specifies the observable obligations that must be discharged
before a world-side transformation can be treated as an improvement.
All logarithms in information-theoretic results are natural logarithms, and all entropies and mutual
informations are measured in nats unless another base is explicitly declared.
1.1 Contributions
The paper contributes the following:
1. A formal model of LLM-integrated systems as partially observed trace systems with raw infras-
tructure, fixed model-policies, target evaluation channels, and compiled affordance fields.
2. An observable-closure axiom that makes all operational decisions measurable functions of commit-
ted ledgers, manifests, receipts, reducers, target channels, and certificates.
3. A claim-object formalism that binds every theorem to a declared scope, target, workload, model-
policy, budget, protected boundary, receipt tier, estimand, promotion profile, confidence allocation,
and declared debt obligations.
4. An evidence-object formalism that packages ledger fields, reducers, certificate events, an evidence
dependency graph, artifact I/O manifests, receipt obligations, conformance envelopes, model-policy
envelopes, and a validity budget ledger into a replayable proof object.
5. A no-meta separation between compiler-declared validity/safety, target-channel validity/safety,
and optional bridge claims to other observable reference channels.
6. A target-channel firewall, no-leakage filtration, and commit-reveal or e-process holdout discipline
that prevents candidate compilers from self-certifying or overfitting target-controlled fields.
7. An observable experiment protocol and a paired-coupling theorem for conservative compiler
comparison under committed sampling, snapshots, randomization, interference controls, and
reducers.
8. A conservative certificate calculus that composes certificate events, confidence budgets, anytime
evidence, evidence dependency graphs, dependence corrections, bounded debt, inadmissible
debt, unsupported obligations, monotone acceptance predicates, forbidden coordinate sets, and
double-counting controls.
9. A vector debt algebra that keeps target measurement, deployment shift, validator, summary, replay-
availability, conformance, model-policy, target attack-surface, overhead, and search-correction
debt in declared coordinates, with strict non-promotability defaults for unbounded protected,
open-world, scope, evidence-graph, and target-leakage debt.
10. A calibrated, vector-valued cognitive impedance order with observable estimators, confidence
intervals, calibration domains, and non-compensable protected dimensions.
6

[[page 7]]
11. A fail-closed execution semantics over observable execution states, with resource-scoped epoch
tokens for time-of-check-to-time-of-use hazards, closed-world and open-world affordance surfaces,
typed-manifest failure obligations, effect obligations, and quarantine of protected violations.
12. A protected affordance compilation bound that composes observable component certificates for
handle selection, staged exposure, dependency hazards, validation, repair, summary abstraction,
target measurement, target attack surface, distribution shift, replay and time-indexed availability
sufficiency, runtime and model-policy conformance, receipt-obligation completeness, obligation
coverage, and protected floors.
13. Supporting certification rules for gate conformance, metadata non-interference, authority control,
receipt sufficiency, and scope closure, separated from substantive finite-sample, information-
theoretic, reachability, macro-reliability, and repair-drift theorems.
14. A precise separation between CIMT and observable-only workflow governance: CIMT proposes
world-side compiler transformations; a generic observable governance interface can replay, test,
and conservatively promote or reject those transformations.
2 Related Work and Non-Overlap
2.1 Compound AI Systems
Compound AI systems combine multiple calls, retrievers, tools, and external components to solve tasks
beyond a single model invocation [13]. CIMT accepts the systems view but narrows the theoretical
target. It asks how the world-facing operation surface changes the trace-certified capability of a fixed
model-policy under a fixed protected boundary.
2.2 Retrieval, Reasoning, Tool Use, and Memory
RAG exposes external knowledge and provenance surfaces [1]. Chain-of-thought prompting and ReAct
expose intermediate reasoning and environment interaction [2, 3]. Toolformer studies model-usable
API calls [4]. Reflexion uses linguistic feedback and episodic memory for trial-level improvement [5].
MemGPT treats limited context as a memory-management problem [7]. AutoGen exposes multi-agent
conversation as a programmable substrate [8]. DSPy compiles LM pipelines against metrics [6]. CIMT
does not replace these techniques. It supplies a language for analyzing them as transformations of
observability, actionability, validation topology, repair locality, authority control, and context packing.
2.3 Agent-Computer Interfaces
SWE-agent is the closest empirical precursor. It treats language-model agents as a new kind of end
user and shows that a custom agent-computer interface can improve software-engineering performance
[10]. Repository-level benchmarks such as SWE-bench and live benchmark practices motivate careful
separation between target tests, held-out tests, and contamination-resistant evaluation [41, 42]. In
CIMT terms, SWE-agent is a domain-specific executable affordance field. CIMT generalizes the
phenomenon and adds formal obligations: typed handles, validators, rollback declarations, authority
requirements, risk classes, staged exposure, handle-capacity constraints, and receipts.
7

[[page 8]]
2.4 Affordances and HCI
Gibson’s affordance theory treats environment and actor as complementary [14]. Norman’s design work
distinguishes perceived action possibilities from system behavior in human settings [30]. Cognitive
Dimensions of Notations supplies vocabulary for evaluating information artifacts, including visibility,
viscosity, and progressive evaluation [15, 16]. CIMT is not a human-interface theory. It is model-
relative, trace-based, and executable: an affordance is relevant only insofar as it changes observable
execution options, validation channels, repair paths, authority checks, context surfaces, and receipts.
2.5 Temporal Abstraction and Hierarchical Control
Options and MAXQ decompose long-horizon control into temporally extended actions and subtasks
[17, 18]. CIMT’s horizon compression is related but distinct. A CIMT macro-operation is not merely
temporally extended; it is a contract-bearing handle with preconditions, postconditions, validators,
rollback mode, authority scope, risk class, and receipt obligations.
2.6 Contracts, Runtime Verification, and Program Repair
Design by Contract, Hoare logic, runtime verification, and automated program repair inform the
treatment of preconditions, postconditions, validators, rollback, and repair [19, 20, 21, 22]. Provenance
and supply-chain integrity work supplies complementary receipt and artifact-integrity vocabulary
[43, 44, 45]. CIMT applies these ideas to LLM-facing operation surfaces and treats validators as fallible
channels rather than perfect proof systems.
2.7 Information Theory
Handle selection is a noisy communication problem. Fano-type inequalities imply that increasing the
number of exposed operations without increasing discriminative information must eventually increase
selection error [29]. CIMT uses this to formalize affordance clutter and the value of staged exposure.
2.8 Sequential and Anytime-Valid Inference
CIMT’s holdout reuse, adaptive search correction, and validity budget ledger use standard ideas from
confidence sequences, e-values, and nonnegative martingales [31, 32, 33]. These tools are used only as
observable statistical certificates; they do not create a privileged evaluator.
2.9 Observable-Only Workflow Governance
Observable-only workflow governance is the layer that replays ledgers, applies deterministic reducers,
enforces protected floors, manages leases or rollbacks, and decides whether a candidate workflow
change is promoted, rejected, or quarantined. Risk-management frameworks such as NIST AI RMF
and its generative-AI profile provide organizational vocabulary around risk, governance, measurement,
and management, while CIMT supplies a narrower trace-level certification calculus for world-side
compiler changes [46, 47]. CIMT generates candidate world-side compiler transformations and the
claim/evidence objects that such a governance layer can consume; it does not require any particular
governance implementation.
2.10 Non-Overlap with Adjacent Theory Classes
CIMT should be read as a narrow world-side compiler theory. Its boundary with adjacent theory
classes is as follows.
8

[[page 9]]
Theory Primary object Relation to CIMT
CIMT Raw world and infrastructure→
executable affordance field
Candidate-generation layer for
model-relative operation surfaces.
Observable governance
interface
Workflow mutation→
conservative promotion or
rejection
Governance layer for observable trial,
comparison, quarantine, rollback, and
promotion.
Certified Value
Translation Networks
Candidate output→certified
deployable value
Output/value translation layer after
candidates exist.
Controller-scale /
certified libraries
Long-running workflow and
reusable certified libraries
Library and workflow operation layer;
CIMT concerns how operations are
exposed to a fixed model-policy.
Search stability under
finite context
Context preservation,
compression, and reset
CIMT uses context packing only as
one component of executable
affordance fields.
3 Layered Architecture
CIMT separates four layers so that promotion does not depend on an implicit evaluator.
1. Observable substrate.Ledgers, receipts, availability evidence, runtime conformance, model-
policy envelopes, and target-channel bindings define what can be replayed or audited.
2. Certificate calculus.Certificate events, validity budget ledgers, evidence dependency graphs,
calibrated vector debt, profile-specific forbidden coordinate sets, and overlap policies define how
evidence composes.
3. Operational semantics.Affordance fields, gates, effect algebra, policy automata, taint, obliga-
tion extraction, and abstract exposure graphs define what executions are admitted.
4. Promotion.A direct paired target-channel certificate, after conservative vector debt accounting
and profile acceptance, supports only the declared claim object.
The layers are intentionally one-way. A target-channel win cannot create missing receipts, missing
conformance, missing obligation coverage, or missing scope soundness after the fact.
4 Trace Systems, Claim Scopes, and Target Channels
4.1 Raw Task Worlds
Definition 1(Raw task world).A raw task world is an observable trace system
𝐸= (ℋ,𝒪,𝒰,𝑃 𝐸,𝐺𝑜𝑏𝑠,ℓ𝑜𝑏𝑠,𝒦),
whereℋ is a measurable set of finite observable histories,𝒪 is a raw observation space,𝒰 is a primitive
operation space,𝑃𝐸(·|ℎ,𝑢 )is a kernel from an observable history-action pair to the next observable
record,𝐺𝑜𝑏𝑠 is a family of task or target conditions measurable on observable histories,ℓ𝑜𝑏𝑠 is a cost or
loss process measurable on observable histories and receipts, and𝒦 is a protected boundary containing
authority, safety, irreversibility, privacy, target integrity, and audit constraints.
9

[[page 10]]
The raw world may be generated by mechanisms that are not fully visible, but CIMT does not
introduce those mechanisms as formal witnesses. Execution, comparison, promotion, rollback, and
quarantine decisions are functions of observable records, declared kernels, and explicit debt.
Definition 2(Raw infrastructure).The raw infrastructure is
ℐ= (𝑇 𝑟𝑎𝑤,𝑉𝑟𝑎𝑤,𝑅𝑟𝑎𝑤,𝐿𝑟𝑎𝑤,𝑆𝑎𝑛𝑑𝑏𝑜𝑥,𝐴𝑢𝑡ℎ,𝑁𝑒𝑡,𝑆𝑡𝑜𝑟𝑒),
where𝑇𝑟𝑎𝑤 are primitive tools or APIs,𝑉𝑟𝑎𝑤 are validation mechanisms,𝑅𝑟𝑎𝑤 are memory or retrieval
substrates,𝐿𝑟𝑎𝑤 is a logging substrate,𝑆𝑎𝑛𝑑𝑏𝑜𝑥 is an isolation substrate,𝐴𝑢𝑡ℎ is an authority substrate,
𝑁𝑒𝑡is a network policy substrate, and𝑆𝑡𝑜𝑟𝑒is a persistent state substrate.
Definition 3(Fixed model-policy).A fixed model-policy is the committed runtime and decision kernel
Π𝑀 = (𝑚𝑜𝑑𝑒𝑙_𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑚𝑖𝑡𝑚𝑒𝑛𝑡,𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑜𝑑𝑒𝑟,𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑚𝑝𝑡_𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑚𝑖𝑡𝑚𝑒𝑛𝑡,𝑡𝑜𝑜𝑙_𝑐𝑎𝑙𝑙_𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑡𝑜𝑐𝑜𝑙,
𝑐𝑜𝑛𝑡𝑒𝑥𝑡_𝑙𝑖𝑚𝑖𝑡,𝑟𝑎𝑛𝑑𝑜𝑚𝑛𝑒𝑠𝑠_𝑝𝑜𝑙𝑖𝑐𝑦,𝑎𝑝𝑖_𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑚𝑖𝑡𝑚𝑒𝑛𝑡).
It determines how model-visible messages are mapped to handle selections, arguments, and stopping
decisions. The compiler may change the compiled view, summaries, and exposed action surface that
become model-visible inputs, but paired compiler comparisons holdΠ𝑀 fixed: model weights, system
prompts outside the compiler-controlled view, decoding parameters, tool-call syntax, context limits,
randomness policy, and service commitments are identical or replay-equivalent across baseline and
candidate trials.
Definition 4(Behavioral model-policy envelope).A behavioral model-policy envelope is
𝐸𝑛𝑣𝑀 = (𝑚𝑜𝑑𝑒𝑙_𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑚𝑖𝑡𝑚𝑒𝑛𝑡,𝑠𝑒𝑟𝑣𝑖𝑐𝑒_𝑖𝑛𝑡𝑒𝑟𝑓𝑎𝑐𝑒,𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑜𝑑𝑒𝑟,𝑟𝑎𝑛𝑑𝑜𝑚𝑛𝑒𝑠𝑠,
𝑖𝑛𝑝𝑢𝑡_𝑑𝑜𝑚𝑎𝑖𝑛,𝑑𝑟𝑖𝑓𝑡_𝑚𝑜𝑛𝑖𝑡𝑜𝑟,𝜖 𝑀,𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑒𝑖𝑝𝑡_𝑠𝑐ℎ𝑒𝑚𝑎),
The fields have observable meanings:
•model_commitmentidentifies the deployed model or local artifact when available.
•service_interface records provider endpoint, tool-call protocol, exposed safety-layer commitment,
exposed tokenizer, and response schema.
•decoderandrandomnessfix or pair sampling behavior when possible.
•input_domainis the prompt and context envelope used in the claim.
•drift_monitoris an observable canary, replay, or paired-behavior test.
•𝜖 𝑀 is an upper certificate on behaviorally relevant drift or replay nonequivalence inside the certified
horizon.
•receipt_schemarecords the fields needed to audit the envelope.
A remote model service is fixed for CIMT only behaviorally, over the declared input domain and horizon;
provider-side drift, unrecorded safety-layer changes, cache behavior, or protocol changes outside that
envelope are model-policy debt.
Certification Rule 1(Model-policy envelope replayability).If baseline and candidate trials are
executed under the same valid behavioral model-policy envelope, paired randomness or replay-equivalent
10

[[page 11]]
stochastic policies are committed, and the envelope’s drift certificate is included in the claim object,
then model-policy variation contributes at most𝜖𝑀 plus declared replay debt to the paired comparison.
Without such an envelope, a claim is about the recorded service episode only, not about a fixed
model-policy.
Proof. The envelope fixes the reducer-relevant model interface and records the monitor evidence
for drift or replay nonequivalence. On the envelope-valid event, both trial arms share the same
model-policy mechanism up to the certified failure probability. Any remaining unmonitored variation
is not coupled by the experiment protocol and must be represented as debt or excluded from the
claim.
Definition 5(Model-policy envelope tier).A model-policy envelope has one of three tiers. Anepisode-
scopedenvelope supports claims only about the recorded service episode and its archived receipts. A
replay-coupledenvelope supports re-execution claims only when archived prompts, tool-call messages,
seeds or sampling commitments, external responses, and response digests make baseline and candidate
trials replay-equivalent for the declared horizon. Adistributional-serviceenvelope supports claims
about future service calls only when canaries, provider commitments, input-domain monitoring, and
drift certificates bound behaviorally relevant service drift over the declared horizon. Strict durable
claims about a remote model service require either a distributional-service envelope or replay-equivalent
archived responses; otherwise the claim must be scoped to the recorded episode, lease, or canary profile.
Certification Rule 2(LLM-call boundary).A model API call is not itself a runtime gate artifact for
CIMT conformance. The call belongs to the behavioral model-policy envelope. Runtime conformance
applies to the parser that reads model output, the typed tool wrapper, the reducer, the sandbox, and
the execution gate that decide whether an output becomes an executable transition. Model output
is an untrusted proposal until it is parsed into a committed schema and admitted by the observable
gate. Semantic correctness of the response is therefore certified only by the target channel, a declared
reference bridge, or model-policy debt; it is not inferred from gate conformance.
Definition 6(Observable ledger and reducer sigma-algebra).For a trace prefix 𝑡, let 𝜆𝑡 be the
committed ledger prefix containing manifests, target bindings, receipts, resource epochs, authority grants,
policy states, validator outputs, target-channel outputs, reducer commitments, and certificate inputs.
Let
ℒ𝑡 =𝜎(𝜆 𝑡)
be the sigma-algebra generated by those observable records, modulo declared redactions whose proof
objects are themselves in the ledger. A reducer𝑅is ledger-measurable when𝑅(𝜆𝑡)isℒ 𝑡-measurable.
Definition 7(Ledger integrity substrate).A ledger integrity substrate provides append-only ordering,
record commitments, manifest commitments, writer identity or capability records, monotone sequence
numbers or hash chaining, missing-record detection for required receipt classes, and a retention or
replication policy. It is not assumed truthful; it is a named observable mechanism with declared collision,
omission, availability, and clock-ordering failure bounds.
Assumption 1(Observable closure).Every operational acceptance, rejection, quarantine, repair,
rollback, reduction, comparison, lease, and promotion decision in CIMT is a measurable function of
the relevant observable ledger sigma-algebra, fixed target-channel outputs, predeclared certificates, and
committed manifests. Analytical states may appear in explanations or impossibility arguments, but
cannot be inputs to operational decisions.
11

[[page 12]]
Certification Rule 3(Ledger-closure implementation).If the ledger integrity substrate supplies
append-only ordering, required-record schemas, missing-record detection, commitment verification, and
availability certificates for all reducer-read fields, then observable-closure decisions can be recomputed
from the ledger up to the substrate’s certified integrity, omission, clock-ordering, and availability debt.
Without these substrate certificates, observable closure is a specification-level discipline rather than an
operational replay guarantee.
Proof. Append-only ordering and commitments fix the historical decision inputs. Required-record
schemas and missing-record detection prevent silent omission of fields used by reducers. Availability
certificates ensure the inputs can be retrieved during the declared horizon. The remaining substrate
failure modes are exactly the declared debt terms.
Definition 8(Observable certificate).A lower or upper certificate is observable when its construction
rule, inputs, confidence allocation, stopping rule, and reducer are committed before evaluation, and its
numerical value is reproducible from the ledger fields admitted by the claimed receipt tier.
Definition 9(Claim object).A CIMT claim object is
C= (𝑆,𝑇,𝐷,𝑀,𝐵,𝒦,𝜌 𝑟𝑒𝑐,I,P,𝛼,Θ,ℬ),
where 𝑆 is the promotion scope,𝑇 is the target channel,𝐷 is the workload scope,𝑀 is the fixed
model-policy commitment,𝐵 is the budget,𝒦 is the protected boundary,𝜌𝑟𝑒𝑐 is the claimed receipt tier,
I is the estimand,P is the promotion profile,𝛼 is the total confidence budget,Θis the target-firewall
and experiment protocol commitment, andℬ is the set of bridge or debt obligations required by the
claim. Every promotion statement is interpreted relative to a claim object. Omitting a field narrows
the claim rather than creating an implicit universal claim.
Definition 10(Claim probability space).Every statistical CIMT claim is interpreted on a declared
probability space
(ΩC,ℱ C,P C)
generated by the workload sampler, paired randomization, model-policy randomness inside the committed
envelope, evaluator or reviewer randomness, external snapshot selection or archived-response sampling,
calibration splits, monitor sampling, and certificate-event randomness. Deterministic certificates are
measurable events with probability one conditional on their observable premises. A certificate whose
sampling source, stopping rule, external episode, calibration split, or reuse rule is not represented in
this space is unsupported for the original statistical claim.
Definition 11(Probability-space manifest).A probability-space manifest is a ledger artifact
𝑃𝑟𝑜𝑏𝑀𝑎𝑛 C = (𝑢𝑛𝑖𝑡𝑠,𝑔𝑒𝑛𝑒𝑟𝑎𝑡𝑜𝑟𝑠,𝑟𝑎𝑛𝑑𝑜𝑚𝑖𝑧𝑒𝑟𝑠,𝑒𝑝𝑖𝑠𝑜𝑑𝑒𝑠,𝑠𝑝𝑙𝑖𝑡𝑠,
𝑠𝑡𝑜𝑝𝑝𝑖𝑛𝑔,𝑓𝑖𝑙𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛,𝑠𝑎𝑚𝑝𝑙𝑒𝑟_𝑐𝑜𝑛𝑓,𝑑𝑖𝑔𝑒𝑠𝑡),
where𝑢𝑛𝑖𝑡𝑠 names the sampled or deployed analysis units,𝑔𝑒𝑛𝑒𝑟𝑎𝑡𝑜𝑟𝑠 names workload and calibration
samplers, 𝑟𝑎𝑛𝑑𝑜𝑚𝑖𝑧𝑒𝑟𝑠 records paired treatment seeds and allocation rules,𝑒𝑝𝑖𝑠𝑜𝑑𝑒𝑠 names model-
policy, external-service, reviewer, and infrastructure episodes,𝑠𝑝𝑙𝑖𝑡𝑠 records holdout and calibration
partitions,𝑠𝑡𝑜𝑝𝑝𝑖𝑛𝑔 is the fixed-sample or anytime stopping rule,𝑓𝑖𝑙𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛 names the observable search
or monitoring filtration,𝑠𝑎𝑚𝑝𝑙𝑒𝑟_𝑐𝑜𝑛𝑓 is the sampler-conformance artifact, and𝑑𝑖𝑔𝑒𝑠𝑡 commits the
artifact. The sampler-conformance artifact records the sampling frame, inclusion and exclusion rules,
randomization seed or commitment, external-episode digest, calibration-split digest, and stopping-rule
12

[[page 13]]
digest. 𝑃𝑟𝑜𝑏𝑀𝑎𝑛 C must be referenced by the evidence object and by each statistical row in the validity
budget ledger. If a probability source, sampling-frame rule, randomization commitment, external episode,
calibration split, or stopping rule affects a certificate but is absent from𝑃𝑟𝑜𝑏𝑀𝑎𝑛 C, the corresponding
certificate is unsupported for the original claim.
Definition 12(Estimand).An estimand is
I= (𝑢𝑛𝑖𝑡,𝑝𝑜𝑝𝑢𝑙𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛,𝑤𝑒𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡𝑖𝑛𝑔,ℎ𝑜𝑟𝑖𝑧𝑜𝑛,𝑖𝑛𝑡𝑒𝑟𝑓𝑒𝑟𝑒𝑛𝑐𝑒,𝑙𝑜𝑠𝑠_𝑚𝑎𝑝),
where 𝑢𝑛𝑖𝑡 identifies the analysis unit, 𝑝𝑜𝑝𝑢𝑙𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛 is the sampling or deployment population,
𝑤𝑒𝑖𝑔ℎ𝑡𝑖𝑛𝑔 maps sampled or deployed units to claim weights,ℎ𝑜𝑟𝑖𝑧𝑜𝑛 is the time or interaction horizon,
𝑖𝑛𝑡𝑒𝑟𝑓𝑒𝑟𝑒𝑛𝑐𝑒 declares whether units are isolated, clustered, networked, or sequentially dependent, and
𝑙𝑜𝑠𝑠_𝑚𝑎𝑝 maps observable target outcomes, costs, and protected events to a bounded loss vector.
Binary success is the special case in which one coordinate is1−𝑌𝑇.
Definition 13(Promotion profile).A promotion profile is
P= (𝑚𝑜𝑑𝑒,ℎ𝑜𝑟𝑖𝑧𝑜𝑛,𝑟𝑒𝑣𝑒𝑟𝑠𝑖𝑏𝑖𝑙𝑖𝑡𝑦,𝑟𝑖𝑠𝑘_𝑡𝑖𝑒𝑟,𝑟𝑜𝑙𝑙𝑜𝑢𝑡,𝑚𝑜𝑛𝑖𝑡𝑜𝑟,𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑒𝑟𝑡𝑖𝑓𝑦,𝑃𝑟𝑜𝑓𝐴𝑟𝑡 P,𝐼𝑓𝑜𝑟𝑏𝑖𝑑
P ),
where𝑚𝑜𝑑𝑒∈{𝑠ℎ𝑎𝑑𝑜𝑤,𝑙𝑒𝑎𝑠𝑒,𝑐𝑎𝑛𝑎𝑟𝑦,𝑟𝑒𝑣𝑒𝑟𝑠𝑖𝑏𝑙𝑒,𝑖𝑟𝑟𝑒𝑣𝑒𝑟𝑠𝑖𝑏𝑙𝑒,𝑑𝑢𝑟𝑎𝑏𝑙𝑒} , ℎ𝑜𝑟𝑖𝑧𝑜𝑛 is the certified pro-
motion interval,𝑟𝑒𝑣𝑒𝑟𝑠𝑖𝑏𝑖𝑙𝑖𝑡𝑦 states rollback or compensation strength,𝑟𝑖𝑠𝑘_𝑡𝑖𝑒𝑟 names the protected-
impact tier,𝑟𝑜𝑙𝑙𝑜𝑢𝑡 is the promoted fraction or scope subset,𝑚𝑜𝑛𝑖𝑡𝑜𝑟 is the online evidence required
after promotion,𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑒𝑟𝑡𝑖𝑓𝑦 is the rule for renewal or expiry,𝑃𝑟𝑜𝑓𝐴𝑟𝑡 P is the machine-checkable profile
artifact whose deterministic reducer defines𝐴𝑐𝑐𝑒𝑝𝑡P, and
𝐼𝑓𝑜𝑟𝑏𝑖𝑑
P ⊆𝑃𝑎𝑡 C
is the set of structured debt-coordinate patterns that must be certified zero for this profile. Irreversible
or durable high-risk promotion normally includes protected, open-world, scope, evidence-graph, target-
leakage, conformance, model-policy, and receipt-availability patterns in𝐼𝑓𝑜𝑟𝑏𝑖𝑑
P , with domain refinements
such as credential leakage, corpus overlap, or test-selection bias. Shadow, lease, canary, or reversible
profiles may instead leave some of these coordinates compensable only with bounded debt, monitoring,
rollout limits, rollback, and recertification obligations.
Definition 14(Profile artifact).A profile artifact is a replayable deterministic object
𝑃𝑟𝑜𝑓𝐴𝑟𝑡 P = (𝑐𝑎𝑛𝑜𝑛𝑖𝑐𝑎𝑙_𝑠𝑐ℎ𝑒𝑚𝑎,𝑖𝑛𝑝𝑢𝑡_𝑠𝑐ℎ𝑒𝑚𝑎,𝑡ℎ𝑟𝑒𝑠ℎ𝑜𝑙𝑑𝑠,𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑡𝑒𝑐𝑡𝑒𝑑_𝑓𝑙𝑜𝑜𝑟𝑠,
𝑓𝑜𝑟𝑏𝑖𝑑𝑑𝑒𝑛_𝑝𝑎𝑡𝑡𝑒𝑟𝑛𝑠,𝑜𝑣𝑒𝑟𝑙𝑎𝑝_𝑝𝑜𝑙𝑖𝑐𝑦,𝑟𝑒𝑑𝑢𝑐𝑒𝑟,
𝑚𝑜𝑛𝑜𝑡𝑜𝑛𝑖𝑐𝑖𝑡𝑦_𝑐𝑒𝑟𝑡𝑖𝑓𝑖𝑐𝑎𝑡𝑒,𝑐ℎ𝑒𝑐𝑘𝑒𝑟,𝑑𝑖𝑔𝑒𝑠𝑡).
Its canonical schema fixes field names, coordinate canonicalization, serialization, numeric precision,
missing-field behavior, and digest computation. Its input schema names the exact lower certificates,
bounded-debt certificates, protected-floor certificates, zero certificates, and baseline protected-floor record
𝑍0 read by the promotion decision. The reducer is a deterministic function of these fields and defines
𝐴𝑐𝑐𝑒𝑝𝑡P(Δ,𝑈,𝑍 0) =𝑟𝑒𝑑𝑢𝑐𝑒𝑟 P(Δ,𝑈,𝑍 0,𝐶𝑒𝑟𝑡 𝑓𝑙𝑜𝑜𝑟,𝑍𝑒𝑟𝑜𝐶𝑒𝑟𝑡,𝑉𝑎𝑙𝐵𝑢𝑑).
The monotonicity certificate proves that the reducer is monotone increasing in certified improvement
and monotone decreasing in compensable bounded debt under the declared product orders. The checker
is a deterministic replay program or proof object that verifies the schema, digest, read set, monotonicity
13

[[page 14]]
certificate, and reducer output. Two implementers using the same profile artifact, evidence object,
and ledger fields must compute the same promotion decision. If the profile artifact is missing, non-
deterministic, non-canonical, lacks a checker, or reads undeclared fields, strict promotion is unsupported.
Proposition 1(Estimand scope conservation).A certificate for claim object C supports only the
estimand I named by C or an explicitly weakened estimand obtained by a declared weighting, horizon,
or scope weakening map. It does not automatically transfer between trial-average, task-distribution,
deployment-weighted, time-average, or user-weighted estimands.
Proof. The reducer, sampling rule, loss map, and weighting determine the numerical target of the
certificate. Changing any of them changes the expectation or loss vector being bounded. A weakening
map is therefore required to reuse the certificate for another estimand.
Definition 15(Protected boundary basis).The protected boundary𝒦 is generated from mandatory
observable classes
𝒦𝑏𝑎𝑠𝑒 ={𝑎𝑢𝑡ℎ𝑜𝑟𝑖𝑡𝑦,𝑝𝑟𝑖𝑣𝑎𝑐𝑦,𝑖𝑟𝑟𝑒𝑣𝑒𝑟𝑠𝑖𝑏𝑖𝑙𝑖𝑡𝑦,𝑒𝑥𝑡𝑒𝑟𝑛𝑎𝑙_ℎ𝑎𝑟𝑚,
𝑡𝑎𝑟𝑔𝑒𝑡_𝑖𝑛𝑡𝑒𝑔𝑟𝑖𝑡𝑦,𝑎𝑢𝑑𝑖𝑡𝑎𝑏𝑖𝑙𝑖𝑡𝑦,𝑎𝑣𝑎𝑖𝑙𝑎𝑏𝑖𝑙𝑖𝑡𝑦,𝑝𝑜𝑙𝑖𝑐𝑦_𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑝𝑙𝑖𝑎𝑛𝑐𝑒}
plus domain-specific protected classes declared by the claim. A claim may exclude a base class only by
explicit scope narrowing that states which operational surface is outside the claim and prevents that
surface from being promoted through the scope-closure certificate. Silence does not remove a protected
class.
Definition 16(Evidence object).An evidence object for claimCis
E= (𝜆 𝑖𝑑𝑥,𝑅𝑠𝑒𝑡,𝐶𝑒𝑟𝑡 𝑠𝑒𝑡,𝐺𝐸,𝑉𝑎𝑙𝐵𝑢𝑑,𝑃𝑟𝑜𝑏𝑀𝑎𝑛,𝒱 𝑒𝑣𝑒𝑛𝑡,𝑂𝑏𝑙𝑟𝑒𝑐,𝐸𝑛𝑣𝑐𝑜𝑛𝑓,𝐸𝑛𝑣𝑀,𝐴𝑣𝑎𝑖𝑙𝐻,𝐼𝑂𝑀𝑎𝑛 𝑠𝑒𝑡),
where 𝜆𝑖𝑑𝑥 indexes ledger fields and archived artifacts,𝑅𝑠𝑒𝑡 is the reducer set,𝐶𝑒𝑟𝑡𝑠𝑒𝑡 is the set of
statistical, cryptographic, conformance, availability, model-policy, residual, and bridge certificates,𝐺𝐸
is the evidence dependency graph,𝑉𝑎𝑙𝐵𝑢𝑑 is the first-class validity budget ledger,𝑃𝑟𝑜𝑏𝑀𝑎𝑛 is the
probability-space manifest,𝒱𝑒𝑣𝑒𝑛𝑡 is the declared simultaneous-validity event,𝑂𝑏𝑙𝑟𝑒𝑐 is the receipt-
obligation automaton,𝐸𝑛𝑣𝑐𝑜𝑛𝑓 is the runtime conformance envelope set,𝐸𝑛𝑣𝑀 is the model-policy
conformance envelope,𝐴𝑣𝑎𝑖𝑙𝐻 is the time-indexed availability evidence for horizon𝐻, and𝐼𝑂𝑀𝑎𝑛𝑠𝑒𝑡
is the artifact input/output manifest set. An evidence object is replayable when every reducer input it
names is either present, derivable, or availability-certified in the claimed receipt tier and every declared
statistical, bridge, protected-floor, repair, conformance-audit, residual, or shift certificate consumes a
row in𝑉𝑎𝑙𝐵𝑢𝑑 or a named deterministic-proof row connected to𝑃𝑟𝑜𝑏𝑀𝑎𝑛 when probability is involved.
Definition 17(Evidence dependency graph).An evidence dependency graph is a directed typed graph
𝐺𝐸 = (𝑉𝐸,𝐸𝐸,𝑡𝑦𝑝𝑒,𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑑,𝑠𝑐𝑜𝑝𝑒)
whose vertices are ledger fields, archived artifacts, reducers, certificate events, holdouts, calibration data,
runtime artifacts, model-policy envelopes, receipt obligations, and target or reference channels. An
edge records read-dependence, calibration-dependence, reuse, shared randomness, shared infrastructure,
or implication. A dependency graph is admissible when every certificate event has all its read and
calibration ancestors in the graph, every reused holdout or calibration source is represented, and every
pair of events sharing an ancestor is routed to a joint-confidence, blocked, clustered, e-process, or
conservative union rule.
14

[[page 15]]
Definition 18(Artifact I/O manifest and dynamic monitor).An artifact I/O manifest for an artifact
𝑎is
𝐼𝑂𝑀𝑎𝑛𝑎 = (𝑖𝑑,𝑎𝑟𝑡𝑖𝑓𝑎𝑐𝑡_𝑐𝑙𝑎𝑠𝑠,𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑙𝑎𝑟𝑒𝑑_𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑑𝑠,𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑙𝑎𝑟𝑒𝑑_𝑤𝑟𝑖𝑡𝑒𝑠,
𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑙𝑎𝑟𝑒𝑑_𝑒𝑚𝑖𝑡𝑠,𝑒𝑥𝑡𝑒𝑟𝑛𝑎𝑙_𝑐𝑎𝑙𝑙𝑠,𝑠𝑖𝑑𝑒_𝑐ℎ𝑎𝑛𝑛𝑒𝑙𝑠,
𝑠𝑜𝑢𝑟𝑐𝑒_𝑖𝑑𝑠,𝑑𝑖𝑔𝑒𝑠𝑡,𝑠𝑐𝑜𝑝𝑒,𝑚𝑜𝑛𝑖𝑡𝑜𝑟,𝑢𝑛𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑙𝑎𝑟𝑒𝑑_𝑝𝑜𝑙𝑖𝑐𝑦),
where𝑎𝑟𝑡𝑖𝑓𝑎𝑐𝑡_𝑐𝑙𝑎𝑠𝑠 may be reducer, target channel, reference channel, validator, parser, wrapper,
calibrator, bridge reducer, conformance checker, monitor, or scope analyzer. The declared reads are
ledger fields, artifact identifiers, calibration sources, external snapshots, model-policy episodes, and
receipt classes that the artifact may inspect. Declared writes and emits are filesystem, database, network,
authority, receipt, metric, reviewer-interface, and target-visible outputs. External calls include service
endpoints and archived-response handles. Side-channel classes include timing, cache state, token counts,
hidden tool metadata, environment variables, and batching or reviewer assignment metadata whenever
these can influence target or protected outcomes. A dynamic monitor records actual reads, writes,
emits, external calls, and monitored side-channel classes into a receipt stream and compares them with
the manifest.
For strict promotion, every reducer, target channel, reference channel, validator wrapper, calibrator,
bridge reducer, scope analyzer, and certificate constructor must have an I/O manifest and either
deterministic I/O closure or dynamic monitor receipts. Undeclared reads, writes, emits, external
calls, or monitored side channels are unsupported obligations for the original strict claim unless the
claim object predeclares a bounded lease/canary profile that routes the extra access to evidence-graph,
target-attack, availability, or protected debt.
Proposition 2(Evidence dependency graph soundness).If 𝐺𝐸 is admissible and every certificate
event is checked only through the dependence rule assigned to its ancestor-sharing component in𝐺𝐸,
then omitted reuse of data, holdouts, calibration sets, artifacts, or model-policy episodes cannot silently
support promotion. Unrepresented dependencies become evidence-graph debt.
Proof. Every certificate reads through vertices and edges in𝐺𝐸. Shared ancestors identify reuse and
dependence components. The admissibility condition assigns each such component to a valid joint or
conservative dependence rule. A dependency not represented in the graph has no such rule and is
therefore not certified; it is evidence-graph debt.
Proposition 3(Evidence-object replayability).If an evidence object E is replayable, every reducer
in 𝑅𝑠𝑒𝑡 is deterministic over its named fields, and the ledger integrity substrate validates the required
commitments and receipt obligations, then all numerical certificates used byE can be recomputed from
observable records up to the explicitly declared integrity, availability, and conformance debt.
Proof. Replayability supplies all reducer inputs by presence, derivation, or availability-certified retrieval.
Determinism makes reducer outputs functions of those inputs. Ledger integrity binds the inputs to
commitments and detects required-record omissions. Any remaining failure lies in the named debt
terms.
Proposition 4(Claim-object scope conservation).A certificate attached to claim objectC supports
only claims whose fields are identical to, or strictly weaker than, the fields ofC under declared weakening
maps. It does not support a different target channel, workload, model-policy, budget, protected boundary,
receipt tier, confidence allocation, or bridge obligation without an explicit transfer certificate represented
as declared debt in a new claim object.
15

[[page 16]]
Proof. The certificate is a measurable function of the ledger fields, protocol commitments, and debt
reducer named byC. A stronger or different field introduces outcomes or obligations not measured by
that certificate. Such a change requires a transfer certificate; otherwise observable closure leaves the
new claim unsupported.
Definition 19(Vector debt and acceptance predicate).For claim objectC, debt and improvement
certificates live in an ordered vector space or ordered product monoid
(VC,+,⪯ C)
with coordinates for target loss, cost, protected risk, replay, availability, runtime conformance, model-
policy drift, search adaptivity, scope uncertainty, target attack surface, open-world residue, and
evidence-graph uncertainty. The promotion profile supplies a product-order acceptance predicate
𝐴𝑐𝑐𝑒𝑝𝑡P(Δ,𝑈,𝑍 0)∈{0,1},
whereΔ ∈V C is a certified improvement vector,𝑈∈D C is a bounded-debt object interpreted through
the declared vector reducer, and𝑍0 is the baseline protected-floor and diagnostic record. The predicate
is not an informal judgment: it is the deterministic reducer named by𝑃𝑟𝑜𝑓𝐴𝑟𝑡 P. It is monotone
increasing in certified improvement and monotone decreasing in compensable bounded debt:
Δ′⪰C Δ,ℛ 𝑣𝑒𝑐
C (𝑈′)⪯ Cℛ𝑣𝑒𝑐
C (𝑈), 𝐴𝑐𝑐𝑒𝑝𝑡 P(Δ,𝑈,𝑍 0) = 1⇒𝐴𝑐𝑐𝑒𝑝𝑡 P(Δ′,𝑈′,𝑍 0) = 1.
It is false whenever a protected-floor requirement declared byP fails or any structured coordinate
matched by𝐼𝑓𝑜𝑟𝑏𝑖𝑑
P lacks exact zero. A convex cone or scalar margin is only a special representation of
this predicate; it is not the primitive object. The acceptance predicate handles compensable tradeoffs
and protected floors, while the forbidden coordinate set handles non-compensable veto conditions.
Definition 20(Structured debt coordinate).A structured debt coordinate is
𝜅= (𝑡𝑦𝑝𝑒,𝑠𝑢𝑏𝑗𝑒𝑐𝑡,𝑠𝑐𝑜𝑝𝑒,ℎ𝑜𝑟𝑖𝑧𝑜𝑛,𝑢𝑛𝑖𝑡)∈𝒦 C,
where𝑡𝑦𝑝𝑒 names the failure class,𝑠𝑢𝑏𝑗𝑒𝑐𝑡 identifies the artifact, channel, authority, corpus, handle,
or boundary at issue,𝑠𝑐𝑜𝑝𝑒 and ℎ𝑜𝑟𝑖𝑧𝑜𝑛 state where and how long the coordinate applies, and𝑢𝑛𝑖𝑡
states whether the certificate bounds probability, expected loss, count, cost, availability, reachability, or
another declared ordered quantity. A coordinate pattern𝑝∈𝑃𝑎𝑡 C is a tuple over the same fields with
wildcards and finite predicates. We write𝑝◁𝜅 when pattern𝑝 matches coordinate𝜅. A shorthand type
such as𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑡𝑒𝑐𝑡𝑒𝑑denotes the wildcard pattern(𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑡𝑒𝑐𝑡𝑒𝑑,*,*,*,*)unless a claim refines it.
A debt certificate is a pair(𝜅,𝑢 )where 𝑢 is an observable upper certificate for that structured
coordinate. CIMT distinguishes at least the following base types:
𝑇𝑦𝑝𝑒𝑠 C∋𝜏∈{𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑏,𝑙𝑜𝑠𝑠,𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑡𝑒𝑐𝑡𝑒𝑑,𝑐𝑜𝑠𝑡,𝑟𝑒𝑝𝑙𝑎𝑦,𝑎𝑣𝑎𝑖𝑙𝑎𝑏𝑖𝑙𝑖𝑡𝑦,
𝑐𝑜𝑛𝑓𝑜𝑟𝑚𝑎𝑛𝑐𝑒,𝑚𝑜𝑑𝑒𝑙_𝑝𝑜𝑙𝑖𝑐𝑦,𝑠𝑒𝑎𝑟𝑐ℎ,𝑠𝑐𝑜𝑝𝑒,𝑜𝑝𝑒𝑛_𝑤𝑜𝑟𝑙𝑑,
𝑒𝑣𝑖𝑑𝑒𝑛𝑐𝑒_𝑔𝑟𝑎𝑝ℎ,𝑡𝑎𝑟𝑔𝑒𝑡_𝑙𝑒𝑎𝑘𝑎𝑔𝑒,𝑡𝑎𝑟𝑔𝑒𝑡_𝑎𝑡𝑡𝑎𝑐𝑘}.
Probability debt bounds event probabilities; loss debt bounds target or reference-channel expected loss;
protected debt bounds protected risk; cost debt bounds budget or overhead loss; replay and availability
debt bound inability to recompute or retrieve reducer inputs; conformance debt bounds uncertainty that
the runtime implements the committed gate, reducer, validator wrapper, or tool contract; model-policy
16

[[page 17]]
debt bounds uncertainty that the fixed model-policy envelope held across paired trials; search debt bounds
adaptive selection error; scope debt bounds uncertainty in quarantine reachability; open-world debt
bounds target-relevant residue outside the parsed closed-world surface; evidence-graph debt bounds
unrepresented reuse or dependence; target-leakage debt bounds leaked holdout, benchmark, evaluator, or
target-threshold information; and target-attack debt bounds candidate-induced target-channel distortion
not captured by ordinary target measurement error.
Definition 21(Debt coordinate registry).A debt coordinate registry for claimC is a finite ledger
artifact
𝑅𝑒𝑔C = (𝑡𝑦𝑝𝑒𝑠,𝑠𝑢𝑏𝑗𝑒𝑐𝑡𝑠,𝑠𝑐𝑜𝑝𝑒𝑠,ℎ𝑜𝑟𝑖𝑧𝑜𝑛𝑠,𝑢𝑛𝑖𝑡𝑠,𝑐𝑎𝑛𝑜𝑛,𝑝𝑎𝑡𝑡𝑒𝑟𝑛𝑠,𝑑𝑖𝑔𝑒𝑠𝑡)
that enumerates admissible coordinate types, subject identifiers, scope identifiers, horizon identifiers,
unit identifiers, canonicalization rules, and forbidden-pattern syntax. The canonicalization map𝑐𝑎𝑛𝑜𝑛
sends every emitted debt coordinate to a unique structured coordinate or rejects it before promotion.
Pattern matching𝑝◁𝜅 must be a deterministic finite procedure over the registry. A coordinate outside
the registry, an ambiguous canonical form, or an undecidable pattern match is an unsupported obligation
for strict promotion.
Definition 22(Debt status).Each debt coordinate in a claim has exactly one status:
𝑠𝑡𝑎𝑡𝑢𝑠(𝜅)∈{𝑏𝑜𝑢𝑛𝑑𝑒𝑑,𝑖𝑛𝑎𝑑𝑚𝑖𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑏𝑙𝑒,𝑢𝑛𝑠𝑢𝑝𝑝𝑜𝑟𝑡𝑒𝑑}.
Bounded debt has an observable upper certificate and is routed through the vector reducer. Inadmissible
debt has no finite bound, no valid estimator, no admissible bridge, or a positive upper certificate in a
coordinate matched by some𝑝∈𝐼 𝑓𝑜𝑟𝑏𝑖𝑑
P . Unsupported obligation means that the obligation required by
the claim has no admissible certificate, reducer, I/O manifest declaration, or bridge rule. Inadmissible
debt and unsupported obligations do not become zero and do not silently weaken the original claim;
they make the original strict promotion non-promotable.
Definition 23(Trace-set semantics for zero and scope).For promotion horizon𝐻 and claim object
C, let
𝑇𝑟𝑢𝑛𝑖𝑣
𝐻 (C)
be the universal set of concrete or replay-archived traces expressible by the raw task world, infrastructure,
model-policy envelope, authority vocabulary, target binding, and receipt schema through horizon𝐻. For
compiler𝐶 and promoted scope𝑆, let𝑃𝑟𝑜𝑚𝐻(𝐶,𝑆 ; C)⊆𝑇𝑟 𝑢𝑛𝑖𝑣
𝐻 (C)be the promoted-trace predicate
induced by the profile, scope certificate, authority policy, gates, and target binding before assuming
any forbidden coordinate is absent. For a structured coordinate𝜅, let𝐵𝑎𝑑𝜅⊆𝑇𝑟 𝑢𝑛𝑖𝑣
𝐻 (C)be the set of
traces in which the event, violation, leak, unsupported access, out-of-scope transition, or unavailable
receipt represented by𝜅occurs. Exact zero for𝜅means the trace-set impossibility statement
𝑇𝑟𝑢𝑛𝑖𝑣
𝐻 (C)∩𝑃𝑟𝑜𝑚 𝐻(𝐶,𝑆;C)∩𝐵𝑎𝑑 𝜅 =∅.
This separates the trace universe from the promotion predicate and avoids defining zero by a scope
certificate that already assumes the forbidden event is absent. The evidence dependency graph must
represent the proof dependency from scope, gate, manifest, and zero certificates; a zero proof may not
depend on itself or on a scope certificate whose soundness premise already assumes the same forbidden
event is absent. Observing zero failures in a finite sample is not this statement; it is a statistical upper
certificate unless the sampling procedure is paired with a design proof that excludes all traces in𝐵𝑎𝑑𝜅
from the promoted set.
17

[[page 18]]
Definition 24(Zero certificate for forbidden coordinates).For a structured coordinate𝜅 matched by
a forbidden pattern𝑝∈𝐼 𝑓𝑜𝑟𝑏𝑖𝑑
P , a zero certificate is a ledger object
𝑍𝑒𝑟𝑜𝐶𝑒𝑟𝑡𝜅 = (𝜅,𝑠𝑐𝑜𝑝𝑒,ℎ𝑜𝑟𝑖𝑧𝑜𝑛,𝑚𝑜𝑑𝑒,𝑒𝑣𝑖𝑑𝑒𝑛𝑐𝑒,𝑐𝑜𝑣𝑒𝑟𝑎𝑔𝑒,𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑜𝑓_𝑑𝑒𝑝𝑠,𝑂𝑏𝑙 𝜅),
where𝑚𝑜𝑑𝑒 is one of: design-exclusion, deterministic-proof, exhaustive-audit, or monitor-enforced-
impossibility. It is admissible only when it proves𝑇𝑟𝑢𝑛𝑖𝑣
𝐻 (C)∩𝑃𝑟𝑜𝑚 𝐻(𝐶,𝑆 ; C)∩𝐵𝑎𝑑𝜅 =∅ using observ-
able manifests, receipts, monitors, scope certificates, or deterministic artifacts, and when𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑜𝑓_𝑑𝑒𝑝𝑠
is acyclic in𝐺𝐸 after adding the certificate node. A zero certificate cannot discharge a premise that
is required to prove its own admissibility, and it cannot rely on a scope or widening certificate that
excludes 𝐵𝑎𝑑𝜅 only by assuming𝑍𝑒𝑟𝑜𝐶𝑒𝑟𝑡𝜅. A false-negative monitor is not exact zero; it is bounded
debt. A monitor supplies exact zero only when it is fail-closed so that traces entering𝐵𝑎𝑑𝜅 cannot be
executed in the promoted scope. A finite-sample audit with zero observed events is not an exact zero
certificate unless the design makes the event impossible; otherwise it yields an upper certificate𝑢𝛼> 0
and is bounded debt. A forbidden coordinate iscertified zero with no unsupported obligationwhen
it has an admissible zero certificate and every obligation in𝑂𝑏𝑙𝜅 has an admissible certificate, I/O
manifest declaration, or deterministic discharge. Missing evidence, missing coverage, circular proof
dependence, or an unrepresented obligation is unsupported, not zero.
Certification Rule 4(Zero-certificate construction).For a structured coordinate 𝜅, 𝐵𝑎𝑑𝜅 must
be generated from the coordinate type, subject, scope, horizon, unit, target binding, authority policy,
and I/O manifests before promotion. The four exact-zero modes discharge the trace-set statement as
follows.
1. Design exclusion:the promoted compiler artifact has no transition, handle, grammar production,
authority grant, external call, or emitted field whose abstract image can enter𝐵𝑎𝑑𝜅.
2. Deterministic invariant:a checkable invariant 𝐼𝑛𝑣 contains all promoted initial traces, is
preserved by every promoted transition, and satisfies𝐼𝑛𝑣∩𝐵𝑎𝑑𝜅 =∅.
3. Exhaustive finite cover:a finite trace, state, cell, grammar, or artifact cover is complete for
the declared horizon and every covered element is checked outside𝐵𝑎𝑑𝜅.
4. Fail-closed monitor:the runtime monitor is total on promoted transitions, detects every
attempted transition into𝐵𝑎𝑑𝜅 before execution or target visibility, and routes it to quarantine
with a receipt.
Any empirical statement of the form “no event was observed in𝑁 samples” is a rare-event upper
certificate, not exact zero, unless one of these four trace-impossibility arguments also holds.
18

[[page 19]]
Mode Required artifact and checker Failure status
Design exclusion Profile, I/O, authority, grammar,
and scope artifacts checked for
absence of any transition into𝐵𝑎𝑑𝜅.
Missing artifact or unchecked
dynamic source is unsupported.
Deterministic
invariant
A committed invariant checker
proves initial inclusion, step
preservation, and exclusion of𝐵𝑎𝑑𝜅.
Failed preservation is inadmissible
for strict forbidden coordinates.
Exhaustive finite cover A complete finite cover plus checker
proves every covered element is
outside𝐵𝑎𝑑 𝜅.
Incomplete cover is unsupported;
sampled cover is only bounded debt.
Fail-closed monitor A total monitor detects attempted
bad transitions before execution or
target visibility, quarantines them,
and emits receipts.
False-negative monitor gives bounded
debt, not exact zero.
Certification Rule 5(Rare-event upper certificate).For a Bernoulli forbidden-coordinate event with
zero observations in𝑁 independent trials, a one-sided upper certificate may report, for example, the
Clopper–Pearson upper endpoint
𝑢𝛼 = 1−𝛼 1/𝑁
under the exact binomial model [25]. For bounded independent indicators, a predeclared Hoeffding
upper bound may be used under its assumptions [26]. For adaptive or sequential monitoring, the ledger
must instead name a confidence sequence, nonnegative-supermartingale, or e-process rule valid for the
declared filtration; a zero count does not justify the binomial endpoint unless the independent Bernoulli
model is certified. This produces bounded debt𝑢𝛼 in the coordinate’s unit. It is exact zero only if a
separate zero certificate proves trace-set impossibility.
Criterion 1(Strict non-promotability default).For durable, irreversible, or high-risk promotion
profiles, the original claim is non-promotable if any of the following coordinates is unbounded, un-
estimated, unsupported, or not covered by an admissible bridge: protected debt, open-world residual
debt, scope debt, evidence-graph debt, target-leakage or target-attack debt, runtime conformance debt
for gates or reducers, model-policy debt for paired trials, or receipt availability debt for reducer-read
fields. Shadow, lease, canary, or reversible profiles may admit bounded forms of these coordinates only
when monitoring, rollout limits, rollback or compensation, and recertification rules are committed in
the promotion profile.
Definition 25(Calibrated scalar debt reduction).For a claim objectC and compensable debt coordinate
𝜏, a debt morphism
𝜇𝜏,C :𝐷 𝜏→R≥0
is calibrated conservative when its scalar unit, calibration ledger, validity domain, confidence event, and
overlap policy are committed before promotion, it is monotone, and on its validity event it upper-bounds
the claim-relevant scalar overstatement contributed by coordinate𝜏. If two coordinates can explain
the same target failure or overstatement, the morphism must include a disjointness certificate, an
inclusion-exclusion correction, or a conservative overlap term. Otherwise the overlapping coordinates
are not additively compensable. Scalar reduction is optional; vector acceptance is the primary CIMT
rule.
19

[[page 20]]
Definition 26(Vector debt algebra).For a claim objectC, debt certificates live in a partially ordered
commutative monoid
(DC,⊕,0,⪯ 𝐷)
whose coordinates map monotonically intoVC. A vector debt reducer is admissible when it is a
committed monotone conservative map
ℛ𝑣𝑒𝑐
C :D C→V C
whose overlap policy prevents double counting, whose compensable coordinates are interpreted by
𝐴𝑐𝑐𝑒𝑝𝑡P, and whose non-compensable coordinates are checked against𝐼𝑓𝑜𝑟𝑏𝑖𝑑
P . For irreversible or
durable high-risk profiles, unbounded or unestimated protected, conformance, model-policy, scope,
evidence-graph, target-leakage, or open-world debt is inadmissible by default. For shadow, lease,
canary, or reversible profiles,𝐴𝑐𝑐𝑒𝑝𝑡P may admit bounded debt if monitoring, rollout, rollback, and
recertification obligations are certified. The scalar reducer
ℛ𝑑𝑒𝑏𝑡
C :𝐷 𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑝→R≥0
is an admissible special case only when every included coordinate has a calibrated scalar morphism
and the promotion profile’s predicate is equivalent to a positive scalar margin plus declared forbidden
coordinate constraints.
Certification Rule 6(Acceptance-predicate debt bound).If every declared debt certificate is a valid
upper bound for its coordinate on a simultaneous-validity event,ℛ𝑣𝑒𝑐
C is an admissible vector reducer,
and the certified improvement vector̂︀ΔC satisfies
𝐴𝑐𝑐𝑒𝑝𝑡P(̂︀ΔC,𝑈 C,𝑍 0) = 1,
and every coordinate matched by𝐼𝑓𝑜𝑟𝑏𝑖𝑑
P is certified zero with no unsupported obligation, then the
observable evidence supplies a profile-admissible lower bound for exactly the claim objectC on that
event. If any required coordinate is inadmissible or unsupported, the original strict promotion is
non-promotable even if unrelated target improvement is large.
Proof. On the simultaneous-validity event, each bounded debt coordinate is no larger than its certificate
and the vector reducer conservatively maps those coordinates intoVC. Monotonicity of𝐴𝑐𝑐𝑒𝑝𝑡P in
improvement and compensable debt preserves the lower-bound interpretation. The forbidden coordinate
check prevents non-compensable coordinates from being offset by unrelated improvement. Inadmissible
or unsupported coordinates have no valid reducer contribution for strict promotion, so the original
claim fails rather than being silently weakened.
Corollary 1(Scalar debt-margin special case).Let{𝜇𝜏,C}𝜏∈𝐽 be calibrated conservative morphisms
for compensable coordinates𝐽, and let the overlap policy for𝐽 be valid on the same event. Then the
assembled reducer
ℛ𝑑𝑒𝑏𝑡
C (𝑈) =𝑂𝑣𝑒𝑟𝑙𝑎𝑝𝑃𝑜𝑙𝑖𝑐𝑦
(︀
{𝜇𝜏,C(𝑈𝜏)}𝜏∈𝐽
)︀
is a conservative upper bound on aggregate compensable debt in the declared scalar unit. If𝐴𝑐𝑐𝑒𝑝𝑡P
is equivalent to𝐿Δ−ℛ𝑑𝑒𝑏𝑡
C (𝑈)> 0together with named forbidden coordinate constraints, the vector
promotion rule reduces to the scalar promotion margin used in simpler claims. If any coordinate lacks
calibration or overlap treatment, that coordinate is non-convertible and is classified as bounded vector
debt, inadmissible debt, or unsupported obligation according to the promotion profile.
20

[[page 21]]
Proof. The claim-relevant scalar overstatement decomposes into declared coordinate events plus their
overlaps. Each morphism upper-bounds its coordinate contribution in the scalar unit. The overlap
policy supplies either a partition, an inclusion-exclusion correction with upper bounds, or a conservative
union bound. This is exactly the scalar half-space form of the acceptance predicate.
Definition 27(Certificate event).A certificate event for claimCis a ledger-declared object
e= (𝑖𝑑,𝑘𝑖𝑛𝑑,𝑖𝑛𝑝𝑢𝑡𝑠,𝑟𝑢𝑙𝑒,𝐸,𝛼 𝑒,𝑠𝑐𝑜𝑝𝑒,𝑑𝑒𝑏𝑡_𝑒𝑓𝑓𝑒𝑐𝑡,𝑑𝑒𝑝𝑒𝑛𝑑𝑒𝑛𝑐𝑒),
where 𝑖𝑛𝑝𝑢𝑡𝑠 are reducer-readable ledger fields,𝑟𝑢𝑙𝑒 is the committed construction rule,𝐸 is the
mathematical validity event asserted by the rule,𝛼𝑒 is its allocated failure budget or e-process threshold
contribution,𝑠𝑐𝑜𝑝𝑒 states the claim fields to which it applies,𝑑𝑒𝑏𝑡_𝑒𝑓𝑓𝑒𝑐𝑡 states the debt coordinate
changed by failure or uncertainty of𝐸, and𝑑𝑒𝑝𝑒𝑛𝑑𝑒𝑛𝑐𝑒states whether the event is handled by union
allocation, a joint confidence procedure, a martingale/e-process argument, a blocked or clustered design,
or a deterministic proof. The event itself need not be directly observable; its inputs, rule, allocation,
and applicability must be observable.
Definition 28(Validity budget ledger).A validity budget ledger is a committed table
𝑉𝑎𝑙𝐵𝑢𝑑= (𝑒𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑖𝑒𝑠,𝑡𝑜𝑡𝑎𝑙_𝑟𝑖𝑠𝑘,𝑑𝑒𝑝𝑒𝑛𝑑𝑒𝑛𝑐𝑒_𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑝𝑜𝑛𝑒𝑛𝑡𝑠,𝑟𝑒𝑢𝑠𝑒_𝑝𝑜𝑙𝑖𝑐𝑦)
whose entries name certificate-event identifiers, method class, inputs, stopping rule, dependence
component, allocated level or threshold, bridge-calibration cost, and reuse constraints. Its method classes
include fixed-sample confidence intervals, simultaneous confidence procedures, confidence sequences,
e-processes, randomization tests, deterministic proofs, bridge-calibration experiments, and conservative
union allocations. Each statistical or randomized certificate consumed by a claim must appear in
exactly one ledger entry or in an explicitly declared joint entry; unbudgeted statistical claims are
unsupported for strict promotion. Entries sharing data, calibration sources, model-policy episodes,
external snapshots, reviewer batches, or infrastructure ancestors must either share a joint-validity row
or be composed by a conservative union rule.
A minimal ledger row has the form
𝑟𝑜𝑤= (𝑒𝑣𝑒𝑛𝑡_𝑖𝑑,𝑚𝑒𝑡ℎ𝑜𝑑,𝑃𝑟𝑜𝑏𝑀𝑎𝑛_𝑟𝑒𝑓,𝑖𝑛𝑝𝑢𝑡𝑠,𝑠𝑡𝑜𝑝𝑝𝑖𝑛𝑔,
𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑝𝑜𝑛𝑒𝑛𝑡,𝛼_𝑜𝑟_𝑡ℎ𝑟𝑒𝑠ℎ𝑜𝑙𝑑,𝑟𝑒𝑢𝑠𝑒,𝑑𝑒𝑏𝑡_𝑒𝑓𝑓𝑒𝑐𝑡).
For deterministic proofs,𝛼_𝑜𝑟_𝑡ℎ𝑟𝑒𝑠ℎ𝑜𝑙𝑑 = 0, 𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑝𝑜𝑛𝑒𝑛𝑡 =𝑑𝑒𝑡𝑒𝑟𝑚𝑖𝑛𝑖𝑠𝑡𝑖𝑐, and𝑃𝑟𝑜𝑏𝑀𝑎𝑛_𝑟𝑒𝑓 is a
deterministic-premise digest rather than a probabilistic sampler. For fixed-sample, bridge, protected-
floor, repair-residual, conformance-audit, and shift-transfer rows,𝑃𝑟𝑜𝑏𝑀𝑎𝑛_𝑟𝑒𝑓 must identify the
sampling or calibration source and stopping rule. The ledger is valid only when the declared composition
rule proves that the union or joint failure probability over statistical rows is at most𝑡𝑜𝑡𝑎𝑙_𝑟𝑖𝑠𝑘, while
deterministic rows are included in the replay checklist but do not consume statistical risk.
21

[[page 22]]
Row class Typical method Required source Composition
Paired target Fixed-sample,
martingale,
randomization, or
e-process
Workload units, paired
seeds, target reducer,
stopping rule
Union, joint row, or
anytime rule
Bridge or shift Paired bridge,
IPM/MMD, domain
classifier, conformal
risk
Calibration split, reference
channel, deployment
sample, exchangeability
claim
Separate row plus
dependency edges
Protected or
conformance
Simultaneous
interval, audit,
deterministic proof
Protected monitor, wrapper
audit, sandbox receipts
Union or deterministic row
Repair or residual Empirical residual,
confidence set,
deterministic bound
Repair transition samples
or simulator seeds
Simultaneous cell-level row
Definition 29(Conservative certificate calculus).For an evidence objectE, a conservative certificate
calculus is a finite or countably budgeted family of certificate events{e𝑗}together with:
1. a mapping from each event to the claim fields and debt coordinates it supports;
2. the evidence object’s validity budget ledger whose confidence-allocation, confidence-sequence, ran-
domization, deterministic, or anytime-valid rule provesPC(∩𝑗𝐸𝑗)≥ 1−𝛼 for the declared family
on the claim probability space;
3. an evidence dependency graph for reused data, shared infrastructure, clustered tasks, adaptive
search, calibration data, and optional stopping;
4. a promotion-profile policy for events whose failure is inadmissible, lease-admissible, reversible-
admissible, or scalar-compensable;
5. an overlap policy preventing the same failure mode from being both subtracted as debt and absorbed
inside a lower certificate.
Certification Rule 7(Conservative certificate calculus soundness).If an evidence object is governed
by a conservative certificate calculus whose confidence-allocation or anytime-valid rule is valid at level
𝛼, whose admissible evidence dependency graph covers all reused data and shared randomness in the
claim, and whose event failures are routed to bounded debt or forbidden coordinate constraints, then
every certificate consumed by the promotion theorem is simultaneously valid except with probability at
most 𝛼, and every unsupported certificate obligation is classified as bounded debt, inadmissible debt, or
unsupported obligation.
Proof. The calculus defines the simultaneous event𝒱 =∩𝑗𝐸𝑗. The evidence object’s validity budget
ledger, joint confidence, martingale, e-process, randomization, or blocked-design rule boundsPC(𝒱𝑐)
by𝛼 under the declared dependence model induced by𝐺𝐸. On𝒱, each certificate supplies exactly its
scoped conclusion. Failures outside𝒱 are charged through their declared debt effects. The promotion
profile determines whether those coordinates are bounded and reducible, inadmissible for the profile,
or unsupported for the original claim.
22

[[page 23]]
Definition 30(Claim-specific improvement vector).For claim object C, paired lower certificate vector
𝐿𝑣𝑒𝑐
Δ , and declared debt vector𝑈C, define
Γ𝑣𝑒𝑐
C (𝐶1,𝐶 0) =𝐿 𝑣𝑒𝑐
Δ −ℛ𝑣𝑒𝑐
C (𝑈C).
Promotion under profileP requires𝐴𝑐𝑐𝑒𝑝𝑡P(𝐿𝑣𝑒𝑐
Δ ,𝑈 C,𝑍 0) = 1and the forbidden-coordinate zero checks.
The displayedΓ𝑣𝑒𝑐
C is a convenient net-vector representation when the profile has a half-space or cone
form. The scalar marginΓ C = 𝐿Δ−ℛ 𝑑𝑒𝑏𝑡
C (𝑈C)is used only for scalar special cases. The native
evaluation-target claim may set bridge-only debt to zero. Deployment, reference-channel, protected-
safety, receipt-sensitive, or transfer claims must include the corresponding declared debt obligations.
4.2 Task Distributions and Observable Shift
Definition 31(Task distributions).CIMT distinguishes an evaluation workload𝐷𝑒𝑣𝑎𝑙, a deployment
workload𝐷𝑑𝑒𝑝𝑙𝑜𝑦, and an adversarial or drifted workload𝐷𝑎𝑑𝑣. A claim obtained on𝐷𝑒𝑣𝑎𝑙 is a claim
about𝐷 𝑑𝑒𝑝𝑙𝑜𝑦 only under a declared shift certificate.
Definition 32(Observable experiment protocol).An observable paired experiment protocol is
Θ𝑒𝑥𝑝 = (𝑠𝑎𝑚𝑝𝑙𝑒𝑟,𝑠𝑛𝑎𝑝𝑠ℎ𝑜𝑡,𝑟𝑎𝑛𝑑𝑜𝑚𝑖𝑧𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛,𝑖𝑛𝑡𝑒𝑟𝑓𝑒𝑟𝑒𝑛𝑐𝑒,𝑒𝑥𝑡𝑒𝑟𝑛𝑎𝑙,
𝑛𝑜𝑟𝑚𝑎𝑙𝑖𝑧𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛,𝑟𝑒𝑑𝑢𝑐𝑒𝑟,𝑠𝑡𝑜𝑝𝑝𝑖𝑛𝑔).
where𝑠𝑎𝑚𝑝𝑙𝑒𝑟 commits the task-sampling rule,𝑠𝑛𝑎𝑝𝑠ℎ𝑜𝑡 commits world and infrastructure snapshots
or archived responses,𝑟𝑎𝑛𝑑𝑜𝑚𝑖𝑧𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛 commits paired seeds or randomization policies,𝑖𝑛𝑡𝑒𝑟𝑓𝑒𝑟𝑒𝑛𝑐𝑒
commits exclusion or logging rules for concurrent effects,𝑒𝑥𝑡𝑒𝑟𝑛𝑎𝑙 commits treatment of external
services and callbacks,𝑛𝑜𝑟𝑚𝑎𝑙𝑖𝑧𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛 commits budget and cost normalization,𝑟𝑒𝑑𝑢𝑐𝑒𝑟 commits how
trial records become target outcomes, and𝑠𝑡𝑜𝑝𝑝𝑖𝑛𝑔 commits the fixed-sample or anytime rule. A paired
comparison is protocol-conformant only if both arms are run under the sameΘ𝑒𝑥𝑝 except for the
compiler field explicitly under test.
Certification Rule 8(Observable experiment coupling).If𝐶0 and 𝐶1 are evaluated under a protocol-
conformant paired experiment with the same sampled tasks, committed world snapshots or archived
external responses, paired randomization policy, budget normalization, interference controls, and target
reducer, then each paired difference𝐷𝑖 =𝑌𝐶1
𝑖 −𝑌 𝐶0
𝑖 is attributable to the compiler difference plus the
protocol-declared residual debt. Any uncommitted difference in sampling, snapshot, external response,
interference, or budget enters the claim only through a declared debt certificate; otherwise the stronger
paired claim is unsupported.
Proof. Protocol conformance couples all inputs to the two trial arms except the compiler field being
compared. Therefore the reducer-visible difference is generated by the compiler difference and by
residual protocol deviations explicitly admitted in the ledger. Observable closure forbids using
unrecorded deviations as evidence, so missing residual certificates make the stronger paired attribution
claim unsupported unless a new weaker claim is separately declared.
Definition 33(Observable discrepancy certificate).A distribution-shift certificate is an observable
upper certificateUCert𝑠ℎ𝑖𝑓𝑡 on the loss incurred when transferring a target-channel paired claim from
𝐷𝑒𝑣𝑎𝑙 to 𝐷𝑑𝑒𝑝𝑙𝑜𝑦. It may be obtained from a total-variation bound, an importance-weighting bound,
a held-out deployment ledger, a drift detector with calibrated coverage, or a predeclared conservative
default. If no such certificate exists, CIMT reports only the𝐷𝑒𝑣𝑎𝑙-scoped claim.
23

[[page 24]]
Certification Rule 9(Observable discrepancy construction).When total variation cannot be directly
certified, the shift certificate may be constructed from observable discrepancies such as an integral
probability metric, maximum mean discrepancy, a predeclared domain-classifier bound with held-out
calibration, deployment canary loss, conformal risk-control ledger, parser-fuzzing invariance test, or
target-channel invariance test. The construction rule must state the sampled populations, I/O manifests,
calibration split, validity budget ledger row, and loss-transfer inequality it supports. A discrepancy
statistic without a committed transfer inequality is diagnostic-only and cannot strengthen the claim
beyond𝐷 𝑒𝑣𝑎𝑙.
Theorem 1(Distribution-shift certificate).Let 𝑓𝐶(𝑑)∈ [0, 1]be an observable target-channel success
indicator. If
TV(𝐷𝑒𝑣𝑎𝑙,𝐷𝑑𝑒𝑝𝑙𝑜𝑦)≤𝜌,
then
E𝐷𝑑𝑒𝑝𝑙𝑜𝑦𝑓𝐶≥E 𝐷𝑒𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑓𝐶−𝜌.
For a paired difference𝑔(𝑑) =𝑓𝐶1(𝑑)−𝑓 𝐶0(𝑑)∈[−1,1],
E𝐷𝑑𝑒𝑝𝑙𝑜𝑦𝑔≥E 𝐷𝑒𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑔−2𝜌.
More generally, any observable upper certificateUCert𝑠ℎ𝑖𝑓𝑡 on this transfer loss may replace the
total-variation term.
Proof. For 𝑓∈ [0, 1], |E𝑃𝑓−E 𝑄𝑓| ≤TV (𝑃,𝑄 ). For 𝑔∈ [−1, 1], the range length is two, so
|E𝑃𝑔−E 𝑄𝑔|≤2 TV(𝑃,𝑄). A directly certified shift loss can be substituted by definition.
Theorem 2(IPM and MMD shift transfer).Letℱbe a declared function class and let
IPMℱ(𝐷𝑒𝑣𝑎𝑙,𝐷𝑑𝑒𝑝𝑙𝑜𝑦) = sup
𝑓∈ℱ
⃒⃒⃒E𝐷𝑒𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑓−E 𝐷𝑑𝑒𝑝𝑙𝑜𝑦𝑓
⃒⃒⃒.
If the target-loss functionℓ𝐶 or paired-loss difference𝑔 =ℓ𝐶1−ℓ𝐶0 belongs to𝐿ℱ ={𝐿𝑓 :𝑓∈ℱ} for a
declared scale𝐿, and a validity-budgeted observable upper confidence certificate givesIPMℱ≤𝜌 on the
validity event, then the transfer loss is at most𝐿𝜌. In the RKHS case, if𝑔 has RKHS norm at most𝐵
and a validity-budgeted kernel-MMD upper confidence certificate givesMMD𝑘(𝐷𝑒𝑣𝑎𝑙,𝐷𝑑𝑒𝑝𝑙𝑜𝑦)≤𝜌 , then
⃒⃒⃒E𝐷𝑑𝑒𝑝𝑙𝑜𝑦𝑔−E 𝐷𝑒𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑔
⃒⃒⃒≤𝐵𝜌.
If class membership, the norm bound, or the upper confidence certificate is absent, the IPM or MMD
statistic is diagnostic-only for CIMT promotion.
Proof. The first bound is the definition of the integral probability metric after rescaling. The second
is the reproducing-kernel Hilbert-space duality between MMD and the unit ball of the RKHS [35].
Theorem 3(Domain-classifier shift transfer).Let ℋ be a declared symmetric hypothesis class and
suppose the target-loss comparison is represented by classifiers in the inducedℋΔℋ class. If a
finite-class enumeration, uniform-convergence argument, conservative analytical bound, or known
hypothesis-class certificate supplies an observable upper certificate𝑑ℋΔℋ(𝐷𝑒𝑣𝑎𝑙,𝐷𝑑𝑒𝑝𝑙𝑜𝑦)≤𝜌 , and the
combined ideal joint risk term for the same representation is upper-bounded by a certificate𝜆⋆, then the
deployment excess target risk is bounded by the evaluation risk term plus𝜌/2 +𝜆⋆ under the declared
hypothesis-class reduction. A single trained discriminator score is not by itself an upper certificate on
𝑑ℋΔℋ. If the representation-class condition fails,𝜆⋆ is unknown, the divergence upper certificate is
24

[[page 25]]
absent, or the ideal joint risk is not routed as bounded debt, the classifier discrepancy is diagnostic-only
and cannot support a stronger deployment claim.
Proof. This is the standard domain-adaptation form forℋΔℋ divergence applied to the declared loss
representation [34]. CIMT adds the requirement that the divergence bound, samples, representation
reduction, and ideal joint-risk term be ledger-declared and validity-budgeted.
Theorem 4(Conformal risk-control transfer).Let 𝑅(𝐶)be a bounded deployment risk functional
produced by a predeclared conformal risk-control procedure with calibration units exchangeable with
the future deployment units covered by the claim, using the same target reducer, selection rule, and
stopping rule. If the conformal procedure returns an upper certificate𝑈𝛼 satisfying
PC{𝑅(𝐶)≤𝑈 𝛼}≥1−𝛼
under these exchangeability assumptions, then𝑈𝛼 may be used as shift or protected-risk debt in𝐴𝑐𝑐𝑒𝑝𝑡P.
If exchangeability, calibration disjointness, selection stability, or the risk functional is unsupported,
conformal output is a deployment diagnostic or lease/canary monitor, not a strict durable transfer
certificate.
Proof. The conformal risk-control guarantee is exactly the stated finite-sample coverage event under
exchangeability [36]. The CIMT conclusion follows by routing the certified upper bound into the
validity budget ledger and acceptance predicate.
4.3 No-Meta Claim Stratification
Definition 34(No-meta claim levels).CIMT separates three levels of claim.
1. Level 0: trace claim.A statement about receipts, ledgers, manifests, hashes, reducer outputs,
costs, authority states, or quarantine status.
2. Level 1: target-channel claim.A statement about success, validity, or safety under a named
target channel𝑇.
3. Level 2: bridge claim.A statement that a target-channel claim transfers to another observable
reference channel, deployment distribution, or estimand.
Only Level 0 and Level 1 claims are native CIMT claims. Level 2 claims require explicit bridge
certificates.
This stratification prevents a target channel from becoming a disguised absolute evaluator. A test
suite, simulator, human review process, proof checker, or deployment signal is a named instrument.
Human review has no special status: it can support claims within its declared interface and calibration
scope, but it cannot by itself establish final truth.
Definition 35(Declared, target, and bridge predicates).For a compiler𝐶, let Valid𝑑𝑒𝑐
𝐶 and Safe𝑑𝑒𝑐
𝐶
denote validity and safety declared by validators inside the compiled affordance field. LetValid𝑇 and
Safe𝑇 denote outcomes of a fixed target evaluation channel𝑇 that is not chosen by the candidate
compiler under evaluation. A reference channel𝑅 is another named observable measurement channel
used only for bridge analysis. Operational promotion is based on𝑇 unless the claim object explicitly
includes a bridge to𝑅.
25

[[page 26]]
Definition 36(Reference channel).A reference channel is
𝑅= (𝑖𝑑,𝑑𝑜𝑚𝑎𝑖𝑛,𝜋 𝑅,𝐸𝑅,𝑠𝑐𝑜𝑝𝑒,𝑐𝑎𝑙𝑖𝑏𝑟𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛,𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑒𝑖𝑝𝑡_𝑠𝑐ℎ𝑒𝑚𝑎),
where 𝜋𝑅 is a precommitted projection to reference inputs,𝐸𝑅 is a measurement procedure,𝑠𝑐𝑜𝑝𝑒
states the claims it can support, and𝑐𝑎𝑙𝑖𝑏𝑟𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛 records observable bridge evidence between𝑇 and
𝑅 or between𝑅 and another channel. A reference channel is not final truth. Human review, proof
checking, deployment telemetry, and delayed external measurement are all ordinary reference channels
when their interfaces and receipts are committed.
Definition 37(Target evaluation channel).A target evaluation channel is
𝑇= (𝑖𝑑,𝑑𝑜𝑚𝑎𝑖𝑛,𝑐𝑜𝑠𝑡,𝑙𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑛𝑐𝑦,𝑐𝑜𝑣𝑒𝑟𝑎𝑔𝑒,𝜋 𝑇,𝐸𝑇,𝑝𝑇
𝑓𝑝,𝑝𝑇
𝑓𝑟,𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑒𝑖𝑝𝑡_𝑠𝑐ℎ𝑒𝑚𝑎,𝑠𝑐𝑜𝑝𝑒),
where𝜋𝑇 is a precommitted projection from the ledger or archived execution artifacts to target inputs,
𝐸𝑇 is the committed evaluator or measurement procedure,𝑝𝑇
𝑓𝑝 and 𝑝𝑇
𝑓𝑟 are optional observable or
calibrated bounds relative to a stronger predicate, and𝑠𝑐𝑜𝑝𝑒 is the set of claims the channel is allowed
to support. If these bounds are unavailable, CIMT reports only target-scoped certificates.
If 𝐸𝑇 includes human review, the reviewer pool, instructions, blinding interface, admissible inputs,
randomization, disagreement rule, and calibration records are part of𝐸𝑇 and 𝜋𝑇. They are treated
exactly like any other fallible measurement apparatus, not as an oracle.
Definition 38(Target firewall).A target channel is firewalled from a candidate compiler𝐶1 relative
to a baseline𝐶0 when:
1. the target projection𝜋𝑇 and evaluator𝐸𝑇 are committed before candidate evaluation;
2.𝐶 1 cannot change𝜋𝑇, 𝐸𝑇, target thresholds, target receipt schema, confidence allocation, or target
input inclusion rules;
3. target inputs exclude candidate-declared validity fields except as ordinary archived artifacts explicitly
included for both𝐶0 and𝐶 1;
4. any compiler-produced metadata consumed by𝑇 is tainted, recorded, and symmetrically available
to both paired arms or excluded by𝜋𝑇.
Definition 39(Commit-reveal target holdout).A target holdout protocol commits before candidate
search to a target evaluator, target projection, task-sampling rule, confidence allocation, and either a
withheld holdout set commitment or a reusable anytime-valid holdout process. The holdout is revealed
or queried only according to the committed protocol. After reveal, reuse requires alpha spending,
e-processes, confidence sequences, or a fresh committed holdout; otherwise the resulting certificate is
search debt.
Definition 40(No-leakage filtration).Let( ℱ𝑠𝑒𝑎𝑟𝑐ℎ
𝑡 )be the observable filtration generated by candi-
date search records before target evaluation, and letℋ be the sigma-algebra generated by unrevealed
holdout outcomes, task identities, evaluator-specific failure modes, target thresholds, and benchmark
contamination indicators not admitted by the protocol. A holdout protocol is no-leakage up to time
𝑡 when candidate choices areℱ𝑠𝑒𝑎𝑟𝑐ℎ
𝑡 -measurable and no unrevealed holdout-controlled variable is
measurable with respect toℱ𝑠𝑒𝑎𝑟𝑐ℎ
𝑡 beyond the committed protocol outputs. Any channel that can reveal
holdout tasks, task identities, target outputs, target thresholds, evaluator-specific failure modes, model
pretraining contamination, public-repository similarity, or cache state is either excluded by commitment,
26

[[page 27]]
logged as part ofℱ𝑠𝑒𝑎𝑟𝑐ℎ
𝑡 , blinded or normalized by a committed mechanism, or charged as search,
contamination, or target-attack debt.
Benchmark and corpus contamination are treated as observable leakage risks, not as background
assumptions; contamination surveys and benchmark investigations motivate making overlap, answer-key
exposure, and item-identity leakage explicit debt coordinates [37, 38].
Proposition 5(Target-firewall non-circularity).If 𝑇 is firewalled from𝐶1 and all target outcomes
are computed as𝑌𝑇 = 𝐸𝑇 (𝜋𝑇 (𝜆)), then a candidate compiler cannot obtain promotion merely by
changing its declared validators, postconditions, trusted descriptions, or success metadata unless those
changes alter the precommitted target projection through ordinary observable artifacts admitted for both
paired arms. If the firewall condition is removed, there exists a self-certifying compiler that writes a
candidate-controlled success field and a target channel that reads it, making target-channel promotion
circular.
Proof. Under the firewall condition, the target outcome is a deterministic or committed stochastic
function of𝜋𝑇 (𝜆)and 𝐸𝑇, neither of which is controlled by the candidate during evaluation. Candidate-
declared success fields outside𝜋𝑇 are not inputs. Candidate fields inside𝜋𝑇 are treated as ordinary
artifacts under symmetric paired rules, not as authority to define the target. Without the firewall,
define 𝐶1 to emit a field𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑙𝑎𝑟𝑒𝑑_𝑠𝑢𝑐𝑐𝑒𝑠𝑠 = 1and define 𝑇 to read that field as success; promotion
can then be induced without independent target evidence.
Definition 41(Target attack surface).For a target channel𝑇 =𝐸𝑇∘𝜋𝑇, the target attack surface is
the subset of candidate-influenced artifacts inside𝜋𝑇 (𝜆)that can change 𝐸𝑇 without corresponding to
the intended target construct. It includes grammar or parser edge cases, evaluator-specific formatting,
adversarial metadata, prompt-like artifacts read by any review channel, simulator exploits, benchmark
leakage, cache effects, and task-identity leakage. A target attack-surface certificate is an observable
upper certificate𝑈𝑎𝑡𝑡𝑎𝑐𝑘 on target-channel advantage attributable to such artifacts under the declared
target protocol.
Criterion 2(Target attack-surface decomposition).A target attack-surface certificate is decomposed
into declared components
𝑈𝑎𝑡𝑡𝑎𝑐𝑘 =𝑈 𝑔𝑟𝑎𝑚𝑚𝑎𝑟⊕𝑈𝑝𝑎𝑟𝑠𝑒𝑟⊕𝑈𝑟𝑒𝑣𝑖𝑒𝑤⊕𝑈𝑠𝑖𝑚⊕𝑈𝑏𝑒𝑛𝑐ℎ⊕𝑈𝑖𝑑𝑒𝑛𝑡𝑖𝑡𝑦⊕𝑈𝑐𝑎𝑐ℎ𝑒⊕𝑈𝑜𝑡ℎ𝑒𝑟,
where absent components are not zero. They are either ruled out by construction, bounded by observ-
able procedures such as parser normalization, differential fuzzing, blinded review-channel interfaces,
simulator invariance tests, contamination audits, or cache isolation, or charged as target-attack debt.
Certification Rule 10(Target attack-surface construction).A target attack-surface certificate must be
built from component procedures whose I/O manifests are declared before candidate evaluation. Typical
procedures include canonical parser normalization, differential parser fuzzing, target-channel formatting
invariance tests, blinded review interfaces that strip candidate-controlled metadata, simulator regression
suites with archived seeds, benchmark and corpus contamination audits, cache-key isolation, and
task-identity redaction. Each component either proves trace-set impossibility for the relevant structured
coordinate, supplies an upper certificate with a validity budget ledger entry, or becomes target-attack or
target-leakage debt. No component is treated as absent merely because it was not tested.
Certification Rule 11(Target-robust promotion).If a target channel is firewalled, a target attack-
surface certificate𝑈𝑎𝑡𝑡𝑎𝑐𝑘 is included as bounded vector debt in the claim object, and the replayable
27

[[page 28]]
profile artifact satisfies𝐴𝑐𝑐𝑒𝑝𝑡P(̂︀ΔC,𝑈 C⊕𝑈 𝑎𝑡𝑡𝑎𝑐𝑘,𝑍 0) = 1, then the target-channel improvement is
robust to the declared target attack surface at the claimed promotion profile. If no such certificate is
available, the strict robust claim is unsupported; a raw target-channel or lease/canary claim requires a
separately declared profile that admits the residual.
Proof. The firewall prevents the candidate from defining the evaluator, but candidate artifacts may still
affect evaluator behavior through admitted target inputs. The attack-surface certificate upper-bounds
that advantage as a vector debt coordinate. The acceptance predicate accepts the improvement after
that coordinate is included; otherwise the claim is not profile-admissible.
Certification Rule 12(Target-firewall holdout completeness).Assume a target channel is firewalled,
a commit-reveal or anytime-valid holdout protocol is followed, and the no-leakage filtration condition
holds for candidate choices before evaluation. Then candidate-controlled success declarations, target
metadata manipulation, and adaptive target peeking cannot increase the no-meta false-promotion
probability beyond the allocated search, target-channel, and target-attack debt budgets. If holdout
outcomes or evaluator-specific failure modes enter the search filtration outside an anytime-valid rule or
fresh holdout, the excess adaptivity must be recorded as search or target-attack debt, or the promotion
claim is unsupported.
Proof. The firewall removes direct candidate control over target inputs and evaluator rules. The no-
leakage filtration makes candidate choices predictable with respect to the committed search information.
Fixed-sample, alpha-spending, confidence-sequence, or e-process validity controls false promotion under
the corresponding predictability and optional-stopping model. Any target peeking outside those rules
enlarges the search filtration and therefore requires an explicit debt bound.
Theorem 5(No-leakage holdout e-process).If candidate selection is predictable with respect to a
no-leakage search filtration and each target comparison emits an e-value whose conditional expectation
under the no-improvement null is at most one, then the product e-process controls false promotion
under adaptive candidate search and optional stopping by Ville’s inequality. Promotion at threshold
1/𝛼has false-promotion probability at most𝛼for the declared holdout protocol.
Proof. Predictability makes each e-value valid conditionally on the past search filtration. The product
is therefore a nonnegative supermartingale with initial value one under the null. Ville’s inequality
bounds the probability that it ever exceeds1/𝛼by𝛼[28].
Proposition 6(Target-scope conservation).A lower certificate obtained from target channel 𝑇
supports only𝑇-scoped claims unless accompanied by a bridge certificate. Formally, a certificate for
Δ𝑝𝑇
𝐵(𝐶1,𝐶 0)> 0does not implyΔ 𝑝𝑇 ′
𝐵 (𝐶1,𝐶 0)> 0,Δ 𝑝𝑑𝑒𝑝𝑙𝑜𝑦
𝐵 (𝐶1,𝐶 0)> 0, orΔ𝑝𝑅
𝐵(𝐶1,𝐶 0)> 0without
an explicit transfer, shift, or reference-channel bridge certificate.
Proof. The certificate is a function of𝑇-receipts. No information about 𝑇′, deployment shift, or
reference-channel behavior is present unless supplied by an additional bridge. Therefore the scope
cannot be expanded without adding assumptions or evidence.
Theorem 6(Reference-channel bridge correction).This is a relative measurement claim from target
channel 𝑇 to reference channel𝑅, not a claim about absolute truth. Both𝑇 and 𝑅 may be tests,
human review, LLM judging, simulators, deployment telemetry, or other fallible named channels.
Let 𝑌𝑇
𝐶 ∈{ 0, 1} be observable target-channel success for compiler𝐶 and 𝑌𝑅
𝐶 ∈{ 0, 1} observable
28

[[page 29]]
reference-channel success. Suppose the bridge calibration between𝑇 and 𝑅 has observable or calibrated
absolute disagreement bounds
P(𝑌𝑇
𝐶 = 1,𝑌 𝑅
𝐶 = 0)≤𝜀 𝑇→𝑅
𝑓𝑝 (𝐶),P(𝑌 𝑇
𝐶 = 0,𝑌 𝑅
𝐶 = 1)≤𝜀 𝑇→𝑅
𝑓𝑟 (𝐶).
Then
P(𝑌𝑅
𝐶 = 1)≥P(𝑌 𝑇
𝐶 = 1)−𝜀 𝑇→𝑅
𝑓𝑝 (𝐶),P(𝑌 𝑅
𝐶 = 1)≤P(𝑌 𝑇
𝐶 = 1) +𝜀𝑇→𝑅
𝑓𝑟 (𝐶).
For a paired comparison,
E(𝑌𝑅
𝐶1−𝑌 𝑅
𝐶0)≥E(𝑌 𝑇
𝐶1−𝑌 𝑇
𝐶0)−𝜀 𝑇→𝑅
𝑓𝑝 (𝐶1)−𝜀 𝑇→𝑅
𝑓𝑟 (𝐶0).
Thus a target-channel lower certificate becomes a reference-channel paired-improvement lower certificate
only after subtracting the candidate false-pass and baseline false-reject bridge losses.
Proof. The lower bound follows fromP(𝑌𝑅
𝐶 = 1) ≥P (𝑌𝑇
𝐶 = 1,𝑌 𝑅
𝐶 = 1) = P(𝑌𝑇
𝐶 = 1)−P (𝑌𝑇
𝐶 =
1,𝑌 𝑅
𝐶 = 0). The upper bound follows fromP(𝑌𝑅
𝐶 = 1)≤P (𝑌𝑇
𝐶 = 1) +P(𝑌𝑇
𝐶 = 0,𝑌 𝑅
𝐶 = 1). Subtract
the upper bound for𝐶0 from the lower bound for𝐶1.
Criterion 3(Bridge calibration cost).A Level 2 bridge claim from target channel𝑇 to reference
channel 𝑅 requires bridge evidence for both arms named in the paired comparison. The candidate
arm needs an upper certificate on𝑇-pass/𝑅-fail disagreement, and the baseline arm needs an upper
certificate on𝑇-fail/𝑅-pass disagreement. If these bounds are estimated by paired bridge trials with
Bernoulli disagreement indicators, a Hoeffding half-width𝜀at level𝛼𝑏 requires at least
𝑁𝑏≥ log(1/𝛼𝑏)
2𝜀2
bridge-labeled examples per estimated disagreement rate. The bridge experiment therefore has its own
sampling cost, reference-channel latency, and evidence-dependency edges. If the bridge cost is not paid,
CIMT reports only the target-scoped Level 1 claim.
5 Executable Affordance Fields
Definition 42(Affordance compiler).An affordance compiler is a transformation
𝐶: (𝐸,ℐ,𝐷,𝑀,𝐵,𝒦)↦−→𝐹 𝐶,
where𝐸 is the raw task world,ℐ is raw infrastructure,𝐷 is a workload family,𝑀 denotes the fixed
model-policy commitment,𝐵 is a resource budget, and𝒦 is the protected boundary. The compiler
does not modify model weights or the committed model-policy. It modifies how observations, actions,
validators, memory, authority, context, and receipts are exposed to the model and to the execution
controller.
Definition 43(Executable affordance field).An executable affordance field is
𝐹𝐶 = (̃︀𝑂,𝐴,𝑉,𝜌,Σ,Λ,Π,M,S,T),
where ̃︀𝑂 is the compiled observation surface,𝐴 is a set of contract-bearing action handles,𝑉 is a set
of validator channels,𝜌 is a set of repair and rollback operators,Σis a context-packing and summary
mechanism,Λis receipt and ledger emission,Πis an authority and policy substrate,M is a signed
29

[[page 30]]
machine-readable manifest, S is a staged exposure policy for menus, andT is a target-channel binding
manifest.
Definition 44(Closed-world and open-world affordance surfaces).An affordance surface is closed-
world for claimC when every target-relevant observation field, action schema, effect descriptor, validator
obligation, policy transition, receipt class, target-binding field, callback, tool-discovery path, fallback
menu, and generated-argument channel is represented in a typed manifest parsed by the obligation
extractor. An affordance surface is open-world on the complementary surface. Open-world surface
is not forbidden, but it must be tainted, sandboxed, excluded from𝜋𝑇, made unreachable from the
promoted scope, or represented as open-world residual debt inVC.
Proposition 7(Open-world residual containment).If every open-world surface is either excluded
from the target projection, blocked by the gate, sandboxed with bounded effect residual, taint-preserved
so it cannot supply trusted authority or target truth, or made unreachable in the abstract exposure
graph, then open-world behavior contributes only the corresponding certified residual debt coordinates
to the claim. Otherwise the original claim profile is inadmissible.
Proof. The listed mechanisms are the only ways open-world behavior can affect promoted target-
relevant execution without being parsed into obligations. Exclusion removes it from the target
reducer; gating and reachability remove it from execution; sandboxing and taint preservation bound
its operational effect. Any remaining channel has no certificate and is therefore not admissible for the
profile.
Definition 45(Contract-bearing action handle).A compiled action handle is
𝑎= (𝑖𝑑,𝑛,𝑑𝑒𝑠𝑐 𝑡𝑟𝑢𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑑,𝑑𝑒𝑠𝑐𝑢𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑢𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑑,𝜎𝑖𝑛,𝜎𝑜𝑢𝑡,̂︂𝑝𝑟𝑒,𝑝𝑜𝑠𝑡,𝑣𝑎𝑙,𝑟𝑜𝑙𝑙𝑏𝑎𝑐𝑘,
𝑒𝑓𝑓𝑒𝑐𝑡𝑠,𝑐𝑜𝑠𝑡,𝑟𝑖𝑠𝑘,𝑟𝑒𝑞,𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑒𝑖𝑝𝑡,𝑓𝑎𝑖𝑙,𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑑𝑠,𝑤𝑟𝑖𝑡𝑒𝑠,𝑑𝑒𝑡,𝑖𝑑𝑒𝑚𝑝𝑜𝑡𝑒𝑛𝑡).
Here 𝑖𝑑 is a stable identifier,𝑛 is a typed handle name,𝑑𝑒𝑠𝑐𝑡𝑟𝑢𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑑 is documentation committed by
the signed manifest,𝑑𝑒𝑠𝑐𝑢𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑢𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑑 is optional untrusted natural-language metadata,𝜎𝑖𝑛 and 𝜎𝑜𝑢𝑡 are
schemas, ̂︂𝑝𝑟𝑒 is an observable precondition,𝑝𝑜𝑠𝑡 is a declared postcondition,𝑣𝑎𝑙 is a validator reference,
𝑟𝑜𝑙𝑙𝑏𝑎𝑐𝑘 is a rollback declaration,𝑒𝑓𝑓𝑒𝑐𝑡𝑠 describes read, write, network, credential, and external
effects,𝑐𝑜𝑠𝑡 is a resource model,𝑟𝑖𝑠𝑘 is a risk class,𝑟𝑒𝑞 is an authority requirement,𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑒𝑖𝑝𝑡 is a receipt
schema, 𝑓𝑎𝑖𝑙 lists failure modes,𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑑𝑠 and 𝑤𝑟𝑖𝑡𝑒𝑠 are resource scopes,𝑑𝑒𝑡 declares determinism, and
𝑖𝑑𝑒𝑚𝑝𝑜𝑡𝑒𝑛𝑡declares idempotence.
No operational definition above requires hidden semantic access. Stronger domain preconditions
may be documented as bridge claims, but execution gates are required to use observable preconditions
and trusted manifest fields.
Definition 46(Closed-world obligation extraction).For a compiled field𝐹𝐶 and target channel𝑇,
an obligation extractor is a deterministic ledger-measurable function
𝐸𝑥𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑐𝑡(𝐹𝐶,𝑇,C) =𝑂 C
that reads signed typed manifests, action schemas, observable preconditions, declared postconditions,
validator references, effect descriptors, authority requirements, policy transitions, rollback declarations,
receipt schemas, target projection𝜋𝑇, taint labels, and staged exposure rules on the closed-world
surface. It emits the finite or countably indexed set of obligations whose failure can affect the claim:
schema, precondition, postcondition, validation, authority, policy, effect-conflict, epoch, rollback, receipt,
30

[[page 31]]
target-integrity, summary, exposure, and quarantine obligations. Fields not parsed by the extractor are
not silently safe; they are open-world residual debt or outside the promoted scope.
Certification Rule 13(Closed-world obligation completeness).If 𝐸𝑥𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑐𝑡 is committed before
evaluation, reads every target-relevant typed manifest field admitted by𝜋𝑇 on the closed-world surface,
and the runtime gate forbids closed-world execution paths with unparsed target-relevant fields, then every
target-relevant operational failure expressible in the compiled field’s typed manifest, effect descriptors,
policy automaton, receipt schema, or target binding is either contained in an extracted obligation in
𝑂C or represented as open-world residual debt. Therefore a later coverage certificate may quantify over
𝑂C for the closed-world surface rather than appeal to an external evaluator.
Proof. On the closed-world surface, the target-relevant operational surface is exactly the set of typed
manifest, effect, policy, receipt, exposure, and target-binding fields admitted to execution and to𝜋𝑇.
The extractor reads those fields and emits the corresponding obligation classes. If a closed-world field
is not read, the gate premise prevents it from influencing a promoted execution path; otherwise the
field is outside the closed-world premise and is charged as open-world residual debt. Thus coverage is
relative to an observable syntactic-operational surface, not to unrecorded judgment.
5.1 Effect Algebra
Definition 47(Effect descriptor and conflict).For a handle𝑎, define
Eff(𝑎) = (𝑅𝑎,𝑊𝑎,𝑋𝑎,𝐼𝑎,𝐴𝑎,𝑑𝑒𝑡𝑎,𝑖𝑑𝑒𝑚𝑝𝑎),
where𝑅𝑎 are read resources,𝑊𝑎 are write resources,𝑋𝑎 are external effects,𝐼𝑎 is an irreversibility
class, and𝐴𝑎 are authority effects. A write-read or write-write conflict exists when
𝐶𝑜𝑛𝑓𝑙𝑖𝑐𝑡(𝑎,𝑏)⇐⇒𝑊 𝑎∩(𝑅𝑏∪𝑊𝑏)̸=∅
unless a transaction, lease, resource order, or commutativity certificate explicitly discharges the conflict.
Rollback modes are ordered by strength:
𝑒𝑥𝑎𝑐𝑡>𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑝𝑒𝑛𝑠𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑛𝑔 >𝑓𝑜𝑟𝑤𝑎𝑟𝑑_𝑟𝑒𝑝𝑎𝑖𝑟>𝑞𝑢𝑎𝑟𝑎𝑛𝑡𝑖𝑛𝑒>𝑛𝑜𝑛𝑒.
An exact rollback restores relevant resource epochs. A compensating rollback declares residual-effect
bounds. A forward repair preserves the new state while repairing target obligations. Quarantine
prevents promotion. No rollback declares no restoration or safe compensation.
Definition 48(Effect algebra with residuals).Effect descriptors form a partial ordered algebra
(ℰ,⊗, 0,⪯𝐸,𝑅𝑒𝑠 )where0is the no-effect descriptor. A safe composition 𝑒𝑎⊗𝑒𝑏 is defined exactly
when read/write conflicts, external effects, irreversibility, epoch dependencies, and authority effects are
discharged by sequencing, leases, transactions, or commutativity certificates. A failed discharge may
define a quarantine transition, but not a promoted safe composition. The order⪯𝐸 compares effect
strength and authority exposure, and
𝑅𝑒𝑠:ℰ→R 𝑘
≥0
maps an effect to observable residual-effect bounds for declared protected dimensions. The algebra is
associative on triples whose pairwise and triple interaction certificates are present in the ledger.
Certification Rule 14(Effect-algebra non-escalation).If a composed handle𝑐=𝑏∘𝑎hasEff(𝑐) =
Eff(𝑎)⊗Eff (𝑏)defined, Req(𝑐) = Req(𝑎)∨Req (𝑏), and the authority join is policy-admissible, then
31

[[page 32]]
𝑐 exposes no weaker authority requirement than either component and no unrecorded residual effect
beyond the ledger-certified component and interaction residuals.
Proof.The authority lattice join is the least upper bound, soReq(𝑎)≤Req(𝑐)andReq(𝑏)≤Req(𝑐).
Definedness of safe⊗ requires discharge certificates for conflicts and irreversible or external effects.
The residual map records the component residuals plus any certified interaction residual; otherwise
the composition is not promoted and must be rejected or quarantined.
5.2 Manifest and Receipt Schemas
A trusted manifest is not trusted because it is true. It is trusted because it is a fixed, signed or hashed,
non-equivocating contract read by the gate. Natural-language metadata may help model selection
only if its taint is tracked.
action_handle:
handle_id:
stable_name:
trusted_description_commitment:
untrusted_description_commitment:
input_schema:
output_schema:
observable_preconditions:
postcondition_claims:
validator_refs:
rollback:
mode:
operator_ref:
validator_ref:
residual_effect_bound:
unresolved_obligations_schema:
effects:
reads:
writes:
external_calls:
irreversible_effects:
state_scope:
deterministic:
idempotent:
commutativity_claims:
authority_required:
history_policy_transition:
risk_class:
receipt_schema:
failure_modes:
A receipt schema is audit sufficient only relative to a reducer class. Replay claims are tiered because
real infrastructure can include nondeterministic services, changing external systems, and provider-side
behavior that is not reconstructed from seeds alone.
32

[[page 33]]
Definition 49(Ledger sufficiency tiers).For a reducer classℛ, a receipt schema may support three
distinct tiers.
1. Audit sufficiency:every reducer inℛ can recompute its claimed ledger output from recorded
fields, commitments, or proof objects.
2. Reducer-replay sufficiency:every reducer-relevant tool output is either deterministically
reproduced from committed artifacts or read from an archived response committed in the ledger.
3. Forensic replay sufficiency:the ledger additionally preserves enough environment artifacts,
timestamps, locale, policies, container images, dependencies, network archives, and external re-
sponse bodies to inspect execution causally, without claiming bit-level reconstruction of uncontrolled
services.
Claims must state the highest tier supported. A higher tier is never inferred from a lower tier.
Definition 50(Receipt-obligation automaton).A receipt-obligation automaton is a deterministic
ledger-measurable automaton
𝒜𝑟𝑒𝑐 = (𝒮𝑟𝑒𝑐,𝑠 0,𝛿𝑟𝑒𝑐,𝑅𝑒𝑞𝑅𝑒𝑐,𝐴𝑐𝑐𝑒𝑝𝑡)
that reads manifest commitments, gate decisions, action handles, authority changes, target-relevant
events, rollback or quarantine transitions, and reducer declarations. At each transition it emits the set
𝑅𝑒𝑞𝑅𝑒𝑐𝑡 of receipt classes that must appear in the ledger before the trace prefix can be accepted for a
claim. Missing required receipts are observable only relative to such an automaton.
Proposition 8(Receipt-obligation completeness).If a trace prefix is accepted by𝒜𝑟𝑒𝑐, every receipt
class in each emitted𝑅𝑒𝑞𝑅𝑒𝑐𝑡 is present with a valid commitment, and the reducer reads only fields
covered by accepted receipt obligations, then reducer inputs are complete up to declared redaction and
availability debt. If no receipt-obligation automaton is committed, ledger absence cannot by itself prove
that required receipts are complete.
Proof. The automaton defines the expected receipt set at every transition. Acceptance plus presence
of all emitted receipt classes proves that no expected reducer-read receipt is missing. Redaction and
availability affect only the contents or retrieval of present receipts and are handled by their own debt
terms.
Definition 51(Receipt integrity and availability).Receipt integrity means that reducer-relevant
fields, archived artifacts, and proof objects are bound to collision-resistant commitments recorded in the
ledger. Receipt availability means that every reducer-relevant archived artifact has a declared retrieval
mechanism, retention horizon, access policy, replication or escrow evidence, and failure-mode receipt.
Integrity without availability supports historical tamper detection but not future replay.
receipt:
trace_id:
task_id:
compiler_id:
compiler_commitment:
model_id:
model_config_commitment:
model_policy_envelope_id:
33

[[page 34]]
service_interface_commitment:
safety_layer_commitment:
tokenizer_commitment:
drift_monitor_result:
prompt_commitment:
policy_id:
action_handle_id:
tool_id:
tool_release_digest:
tool_manifest_commitment:
validator_id:
validator_release_digest:
sandbox_image_digest:
dependency_lockfile_digest:
input_commitment:
output_commitment:
external_observation_snapshot_commitment:
external_response_body_commitment:
external_response_archive_uri:
archive_availability_commitment:
retention_horizon:
access_policy_commitment:
replication_or_escrow_proof:
precheck_result:
resource_epoch_pre:
resource_epoch_exec:
resource_epoch_post:
lease_or_transaction_token:
validator_result:
authority_grant_id:
capability_before:
capability_after:
policy_state_before:
policy_state_after:
risk_class:
rollback_mode:
rollback_receipt_id:
residual_effect_bound:
unresolved_obligations:
cost:
timestamp:
locale:
timezone:
randomness_seed_or_policy:
network_policy_commitment:
reducer_commitment:
34

[[page 35]]
certificate_event_ids:
obligation_extractor_commitment:
Lemma 1(Manifest non-equivocation).If an execution gate reads only a manifest whose commitment
is recorded in the receipt, and if the manifest commitment is collision-resistant for the operational
setting, then later changes to manifest content cannot alter the historical gate basis for that receipt
without changing the commitment.
Proof. The reducer binds the gate decision to the manifest commitment. Any different manifest either
has the same committed content or produces a different commitment, except with collision probability
outside the declared cryptographic assumption.
6 Observable Execution Semantics and Fail-Closed Transitions
6.1 Observable Operational States
CIMT uses operational states whose coordinates are observable records or deterministic reductions of
observable records:
𝑞𝑜𝑏𝑠
𝑡 = (𝑜𝑡,𝑐𝑡𝑥𝑡,𝑐𝑎𝑝𝑡,𝜋𝑡,𝑏𝑡,𝜆𝑡,𝑟𝑡,𝜔𝑡,𝜈𝑡,𝑜𝑏𝑙𝑡,𝑡𝑎𝑖𝑛𝑡𝑡),
where𝑜𝑡 is the observation,𝑐𝑡𝑥𝑡 is packed context,𝑐𝑎𝑝𝑡 is authority capability,𝜋𝑡 is a policy-automaton
state, 𝑏𝑡 is remaining budget,𝜆𝑡 is the ledger prefix,𝑟𝑡 is the latest receipt,𝜔𝑡 is unresolved workflow
debt,𝜈𝑡 is a resource-scoped epoch map,𝑜𝑏𝑙𝑡 are unresolved obligations, and𝑡𝑎𝑖𝑛𝑡𝑡 are information-flow
labels.
Operational gates, validators, reducers, and promotion rules may depend on𝑞𝑜𝑏𝑠
𝑡 , receipts, declared
kernels, and explicit debt coordinates only.
6.2 Transition Cycle
A compiled action cycle is
𝑜𝑏𝑠𝑒𝑟𝑣𝑒→𝑠𝑢𝑚𝑚𝑎𝑟𝑖𝑧𝑒→𝑠𝑡𝑎𝑔𝑒→𝑠𝑒𝑙𝑒𝑐𝑡→𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑐ℎ𝑒𝑐𝑘→𝑒𝑝𝑜𝑐ℎ_𝑐ℎ𝑒𝑐𝑘
→𝑒𝑥𝑒𝑐𝑢𝑡𝑒→𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑖𝑑𝑎𝑡𝑒→𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑒𝑖𝑝𝑡→𝑟𝑒𝑝𝑎𝑖𝑟/𝑟𝑜𝑙𝑙𝑏𝑎𝑐𝑘/𝑞𝑢𝑎𝑟𝑎𝑛𝑡𝑖𝑛𝑒
→𝑟𝑒𝑑𝑢𝑐𝑒.
The gate checks schemas, observable preconditions, authority, policy automata, budget, resource
epochs, taint restrictions, and risk class. Failures emit rejection or quarantine receipts. A deterministic
reducer updates operational state from receipts.
6.3 Resource-Scoped TOCTOU Control
A single global state epoch is insufficient. CIMT uses a resource-scoped epoch map
𝜈𝑡 :ℛ→𝐸𝑝𝑜𝑐ℎ.
For a handle𝑎,
𝑅𝑒𝑠(𝑎) =𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑑𝑠(𝑎)∪𝑤𝑟𝑖𝑡𝑒𝑠(𝑎).
Execution is epoch-stable only if either a valid transaction/lease token exists or
∀𝑟∈𝑅𝑒𝑠(𝑎), 𝜈 𝑝𝑟𝑒(𝑟) =𝜈 𝑒𝑥𝑒𝑐(𝑟).
35

[[page 36]]
If this check fails, the action is rejected or quarantined before execution.
Definition 52(Observable execution gate).A gate is a ledger-measurable observable function
Gate(𝑎,𝑎𝑟𝑔𝑠,𝑞 𝑜𝑏𝑠
𝑡 )∈{𝑎𝑙𝑙𝑜𝑤,𝑟𝑒𝑗𝑒𝑐𝑡,𝑞𝑢𝑎𝑟𝑎𝑛𝑡𝑖𝑛𝑒}.
It may depend only on trusted manifest fields, schemas, observable preconditions, resource epochs,
capability state, policy state, taint labels, budget, sandbox status, receipts, and target-binding manifests.
It may not depend on unrecorded world state or untrusted natural-language metadata.
Certification Rule 15(Observable gate contract conformance).Assume the gate implementation
is linked to a committed predicate whose conjuncts are schema validity, observable precondition pass,
authority admissibility, policy-automaton admissibility, budget admissibility, resource-epoch stability,
taint admissibility, and risk-class admissibility. Predicate-to-artifact conformance is certified by at
least one committed construction mechanism: proof-carrying wrapper, generated gate code from the
signed manifest and checked generator digest, finite-domain exhaustive check, symbolic proof over the
declared input domain, coverage-bounded audit with false-negative upper certificate, or runtime monitor
with false-negative upper certificate. If the conformance certificate covers the executed input domain
and Gate(𝑎,𝑎𝑟𝑔𝑠,𝑞 𝑜𝑏𝑠) =𝑎𝑙𝑙𝑜𝑤, then every committed observable gate obligation holds except on the
certified false-negative event. If a committed obligation fails outside that event, the gate rejects or
quarantines.
Proof. On the certificate-valid event, the deployed gate and committed predicate agree on the covered
input domain. The committed predicate allows exactly the accepting branch of the ledger-measurable
conjunction. A false conjunct therefore cannot produce an allowed transition unless the predicate-to-
artifact certificate fails, which is charged to𝜖𝑓𝑛 or to conformance debt.
Definition 53(Conformance envelope).A runtime conformance envelope is
𝐸𝑛𝑣𝑐𝑜𝑛𝑓 = (𝑎𝑟𝑡𝑖𝑓𝑎𝑐𝑡,𝑐𝑜𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑐𝑡,𝑖𝑛𝑝𝑢𝑡_𝑑𝑜𝑚𝑎𝑖𝑛,𝑐𝑜𝑣𝑒𝑟𝑎𝑔𝑒,𝜖 𝑓𝑛,𝑚𝑒𝑡ℎ𝑜𝑑,𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑒𝑖𝑝𝑡_𝑠𝑐ℎ𝑒𝑚𝑎),
where𝑎𝑟𝑡𝑖𝑓𝑎𝑐𝑡 is the deployed gate, reducer, validator wrapper, tool wrapper, or sandbox image;𝑐𝑜𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑐𝑡
is the committed manifest predicate;𝑖𝑛𝑝𝑢𝑡_𝑑𝑜𝑚𝑎𝑖𝑛 is the declared envelope of inputs and states;
𝑐𝑜𝑣𝑒𝑟𝑎𝑔𝑒 is the portion of the envelope checked by proof, exhaustive enumeration, test, audit, or monitor;
𝜖𝑓𝑛 is an upper certificate on undetected nonconformance inside the envelope; and𝑚𝑒𝑡ℎ𝑜𝑑 names the
conformance mechanism. Inputs outside𝑖𝑛𝑝𝑢𝑡_𝑑𝑜𝑚𝑎𝑖𝑛 and uncovered behavior are conformance debt.
Definition 54(Runtime conformance certificate).A runtime conformance certificate is an observable
certificate that a conformance envelope is valid for the executed input domain. It may be supplied
by reproducible build digests, proof-carrying code, sandbox image commitments, deterministic confor-
mance tests, coverage-bounded audits, or runtime monitors with false-negative certificates. Uncertified
conformance gaps are declared conformance debt.
Certification Rule 16(Runtime conformance transfer).If the gate, reducer, and target-relevant
tool wrappers have conformance envelopes whose input domains cover the executed trace and whose
false-negative certificates are included in the claim object, then ledger proofs about their committed
predicates transfer to the deployed runtime up to the certified conformance debt. Without such envelopes,
observable closure applies only to the recorded specification, not to the actual execution behavior.
Proof. The conformance envelope is an observable bridge between committed predicates and deployed
artifacts over a declared input domain. On the certificate-valid event, the deployed artifact and
36

[[page 37]]
committed predicate agree over covered executions except with probability bounded by𝜖𝑓𝑛. Executions
outside the envelope or coverage are conformance debt.
Remark 1(Optional reference bridge).A stronger statement that observable gate pass predicts another
reference channel’s precondition or outcome is a Level 2 bridge claim. It requires a separate calibration
certificate. CIMT promotion does not require such a bridge unless the claim object names it.
7 Validators, Target Channels, and Obligation Coverage
Definition 55(Validator channel).A validator is a fallible observable channel
𝑣= (𝑖𝑑,𝑑𝑜𝑚𝑎𝑖𝑛,𝑐𝑜𝑠𝑡,𝑙𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑛𝑐𝑦,𝑝 𝑓𝑝,𝑝𝑓𝑟,𝑐𝑜𝑣𝑒𝑟𝑎𝑔𝑒,𝑎𝑑𝑣,𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑒𝑖𝑝𝑡_𝑠𝑐ℎ𝑒𝑚𝑎),
where𝑐𝑜𝑣𝑒𝑟𝑎𝑔𝑒⊆𝒪 𝑜𝑏𝑙 is the set of obligations addressed and𝑎𝑑𝑣 is the adversarial surface. If𝑝𝑓𝑝
and 𝑝𝑓𝑟 are unknown, the validator may be used operationally, but stronger measurement-correction
claims cannot be made.
Proposition 9(Robust validator portfolio).For validators 𝑣1,...,𝑣 𝑚 applied to the same obligation,
let 𝐹𝑃𝑖 and 𝐹𝑅𝑖 denote false-pass and false-reject events. Conditional independence gives the usual
product formulas. Without independence, an AND portfolio satisfies
𝑝𝐴𝑁𝐷
𝑓𝑝 ≤min
𝑖
𝑝(𝑖)
𝑓𝑝, 𝑝 𝐴𝑁𝐷
𝑓𝑟 ≤min{1,
∑︁
𝑖
𝑝(𝑖)
𝑓𝑟},
and an OR portfolio satisfies
𝑝𝑂𝑅
𝑓𝑝 ≤min{1,
∑︁
𝑖
𝑝(𝑖)
𝑓𝑝}, 𝑝 𝑂𝑅
𝑓𝑟 ≤min
𝑖
𝑝(𝑖)
𝑓𝑟.
Proof. Use Pr(∩𝑖𝐸𝑖)≤min 𝑖 Pr(𝐸𝑖)and Pr(∪𝑖𝐸𝑖)≤ ∑︀
𝑖 Pr(𝐸𝑖). Conditional independence yields
products as the special case.
Certification Rule 17(Obligation-coverage validator rule).Let𝑂 be the set of obligations required
before promotion of a scope. If a validator portfolio𝑆satisfies
𝑂⊆
⋃︁
𝑣∈𝑆
𝑐𝑜𝑣𝑒𝑟𝑎𝑔𝑒(𝑣),
and for every obligation𝑜∈𝑂 there is an upper certificate𝜖𝑜 on false pass by the selected validators
covering𝑜, then the total false-pass probability for the obligation set is bounded by
P(some promoted obligation is false but passed)≤
∑︁
𝑜∈𝑂
𝜖𝑜.
Proof.Apply the union bound over obligation-level false-pass events.
Criterion 4(Budgeted validator portfolio).Given obligations 𝑂, candidate validators𝑣∈𝒱 , costs𝑐𝑣,
coverage sets𝑐𝑜𝑣𝑒𝑟𝑎𝑔𝑒(𝑣), and obligation-level false-pass certificates𝜖𝑜,𝑣, a portfolio selection problem
is
min
𝑆⊆𝒱
∑︁
𝑣∈𝑆
𝑐𝑣 subject to𝑂⊆
⋃︁
𝑣∈𝑆
𝑐𝑜𝑣𝑒𝑟𝑎𝑔𝑒(𝑣),
∑︁
𝑜∈𝑂
𝜖𝑜(𝑆)≤𝜖 𝑣𝑎𝑙,
where𝜖𝑜(𝑆)is computed by the declared AND, OR, or quorum rule for validators in𝑆 covering𝑜. The
problem is an observable set-cover problem with error constraints; approximate or greedy choices are
37

[[page 38]]
admissible only as compiler choices, not as proofs of optimality unless their approximation certificates
are recorded.
Criterion 5(Verifier placement).A local validator with cost𝑐𝑣, false-pass probability𝑝𝑓𝑝, false-reject
probability𝑝𝑓𝑟, proxy-loss cost𝑞𝐶𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑥𝑦, and false-reject cost𝐶𝑟𝑒𝑗𝑒𝑐𝑡 is favorable before a transition
when
(1−𝑝 𝑓𝑝)
(︀
𝐶𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑝(𝑑)−𝐶 𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑝(𝑑′)
)︀
>𝑐 𝑣 +𝑝𝑓𝑟𝐶𝑟𝑒𝑗𝑒𝑐𝑡 +𝑞𝐶 𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑥𝑦.
The criterion is scoped to a declared loss map; it is not a truth oracle.
8 Authority, Policy Automata, and Taint
Definition 56(Authority lattice and policy automaton).Authority scopes form a lattice(𝒜,≤,∧,∨ ).
Each handle has a required authorityReq(𝑎)∈𝒜 . The observable state includes𝑐𝑎𝑝𝑡∈𝒜 and a
history-dependent policy state𝜋𝑡∈𝒫. A handle is admissible only if
Req(𝑎)≤𝑐𝑎𝑝 𝑡 and𝜋 𝑡
𝑎,𝑎𝑟𝑔𝑠
−−−−→𝜋𝑡+1̸=𝑟𝑒𝑗𝑒𝑐𝑡.
The automaton captures history-dependent constraints such as rate limits, user consent, one-time
grants, separation of duties, taint propagation, and confirmation sequences.
Lemma 2(Adversarial metadata non-interference).Let the execution gate be
Gate(𝑎,𝑞𝑜𝑏𝑠) =𝑓(𝑖𝑑,𝜎, ̂︂𝑝𝑟𝑒,Req,𝑟𝑖𝑠𝑘,𝑒𝑓𝑓𝑒𝑐𝑡𝑠,𝑐𝑎𝑝 𝑡,𝜋𝑡,𝜈𝑡,𝑏𝑡,𝑡𝑎𝑖𝑛𝑡𝑡),
where all inputs are trusted manifest fields or observable state fields. If untrusted metadata
𝑑𝑒𝑠𝑐𝑢𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑢𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑑(𝑎)is not an input to𝑓, arbitrary modification of𝑑𝑒𝑠𝑐𝑢𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑢𝑠𝑡𝑒𝑑(𝑎)cannot change whether
the gate allows, rejects, or quarantines the action.
Proof. Changing a variable outside the input set of a deterministic function cannot change its
output.
Proposition 10(Selection-surface taint).Let 𝑈 be untrusted metadata included in the model’s
handle-selection context, and let̂︀𝐴be the selected handle. If
𝐼(𝑈; ̂︀𝐴|𝐾)>0,
where𝐾 is the trusted selection context, then changes in𝑈 can change the handle-selection distribution.
Execution-gate non-interference therefore does not imply selection non-interference.
Proof. Positive conditional mutual information means𝑈 and ̂︀𝐴 are not conditionally independent
given𝐾.
Certification Rule 18(Taint-preserved context packing).If the context packerΣpreserves taint labels
and the gate forbids tainted content from serving as an authority grant, high-risk argument, or trusted
manifest field, then untrusted observations exposed through context cannot directly create authority
escalation. They may still influence selection, so high-risk selection requires trusted projections or
independent confirmation.
Proof. The gate admits authority and high-risk execution only from untainted or trusted fields. Since
Σpreserves taint, tainted observations cannot be relabeled into trusted grants by packing alone.
38

[[page 39]]
Certification Rule 19(Authority non-escalation).Assume every executed action satisfiesReq(𝑎𝑡)≤
𝑐𝑎𝑝𝑡, every capability increase satisfies
𝑐𝑎𝑝𝑡+1≰𝑐𝑎𝑝 𝑡⇒∃𝑟 𝑡 : Receipt𝑔𝑟𝑎𝑛𝑡(𝑟𝑡) =𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑖𝑑,
and the policy automaton rejects unauthorized grant sequences. Then no executed trace contains an
unreceipted authority escalation.
Proof. Any capability increase without a valid grant receipt is rejected by the gate or policy automaton
and therefore cannot appear as an executed transition.
9 Validated Capability, Paired Comparison, and Search Correction
9.1 Target-Channel Outcomes
For compiler𝐶and unit𝑑 𝑖 in estimandI, define the observable bounded target-loss vector
𝐿𝐶
𝑖 =𝑙𝑜𝑠𝑠_𝑚𝑎𝑝 I(𝜆𝐶
𝑖 ,𝑇)∈[0,1] 𝑘.
The binary target-channel success outcome is the special case
𝑌𝐶
𝑖 =1{Success 𝑇
𝑖 (𝐶)∧Valid 𝑇
𝑖 (𝐶)∧Safe 𝑇
𝑖 (𝐶)∧Cost 𝑖(𝐶)≤𝐵}.
Both are Level 1 target-channel statements, not statements of final truth.
Definition 57(One-sided lower certificate).Given 𝑁 fixed target-channel trials and𝑠 =∑︀
𝑖𝑌𝐶
𝑖 , a
Clopper–Pearson lower certificate at level1−𝛼is
LCert𝑁
𝐵,𝛼(𝐶) =
⎧
⎨
⎩
0, 𝑠= 0,
BetaQ(𝛼;𝑠,𝑁−𝑠+ 1), 𝑠>0,
where BetaQ(𝛼;𝑎,𝑏 )is the 𝛼 quantile of the Beta(𝑎,𝑏 )distribution [25]. Other valid lower bounds may
be substituted if predeclared.
9.2 Direct Paired Difference
The primary compiler-comparison estimand is the weighted loss improvement vector declared byI:
Δ𝐿𝑇
I (𝐶1,𝐶 0) =E I
[︀
𝐿𝐶0(𝑑)−𝐿 𝐶1(𝑑)
]︀
.
For binary success, this reduces to
Δ𝑝𝑇
𝐵(𝐶1,𝐶 0) =E 𝑑∼𝐷𝑒𝑣𝑎𝑙[𝑌𝐶1(𝑑)−𝑌 𝐶0(𝑑)].
For paired trials,
𝐷𝑖 =𝑌 𝐶1
𝑖 −𝑌 𝐶0
𝑖 ∈{−1,0,1}, ̂︀Δ𝑁 = 1
𝑁
𝑁∑︁
𝑖=1
𝐷𝑖.
39

[[page 40]]
Theorem 7(Observable paired-difference lower certificate).If 𝐷𝑖∈ [−1, 1]are independent paired
differences with meanΔ𝑝𝑇
𝐵(𝐶1,𝐶 0), then
LCert𝑁
Δ,𝛼(𝐶1,𝐶 0) = ̂︀Δ𝑁−
√︃
2 log(1/𝛼)
𝑁
satisfies
P
(︁
LCert𝑁
Δ,𝛼≤Δ𝑝 𝑇
𝐵(𝐶1,𝐶 0)
)︁
≥1−𝛼.
To obtain a half-width at most𝜀> 0for this fixed-sample bound, it is sufficient and necessary for this
Hoeffding radius that
𝑁≥ 2 log(1/𝛼)
𝜀2 .
Proof. Hoeffding’s inequality for variables in an interval of length two givesP(̂︀Δ𝑁− Δ𝑝𝑇
𝐵≥𝑡 )≤
exp(−𝑁𝑡 2/2)[26]. Substitute𝑡=
√︀
2 log(1/𝛼)/𝑁.
Theorem 8(Martingale paired certificate).If( 𝐷𝑡)are adapted to a filtration(ℱ𝑡), 𝐷𝑡∈ [−1, 1], and
E[𝐷𝑡|ℱ 𝑡−1] = Δ𝑡, then Azuma-Hoeffding yields a valid lower certificate for1
𝑁
∑︀
𝑡 Δ𝑡 of the same form.
More generally, predeclared confidence sequences or e-processes can replace the fixed-sample bound for
anytime use.
Proof.Apply Azuma-Hoeffding to the martingale difference𝐷𝑡−Δ𝑡 with range length two [27].
Theorem 9(Blocked or clustered paired certificate).Partition paired trials into committed blocks or
clusters 𝐺1,...,𝐺 𝑚 that contain shared external state, shared task family, cache dependence, evaluator
batch effects, or repeated artifacts. Let
¯𝐷𝑗 = 1
|𝐺𝑗|
∑︁
𝑖∈𝐺𝑗
𝐷𝑖∈[−1,1]
and suppose the block summaries are independent under an admissible block-independence certificate, or
governed by a predeclared martingale order with means¯Δ𝑗. Then applying the paired lower certificate to
¯𝐷1,..., ¯𝐷𝑚 yields a valid lower bound for the average block-level paired effect. A claim about trial-level
average effect additionally requires a committed weighting rule and any cluster-size reweighting debt.
Proof. The block summary is bounded in[−1, 1]and absorbs within-block dependence. The indepen-
dence or martingale condition is required only across block summaries, so Hoeffding or Azuma-Hoeffding
applies to the block process. Reweighting from block means to trial means is a deterministic reducer
step or a declared debt term.
Protocol 1(Cluster design construction).Before target evaluation, the experiment protocol must
construct blocks from observable non-outcome keys such as artifact family, repository or tenant, task
source, cache shard, evaluator batch, external-service snapshot, model-policy episode, or calibration
source. These keys are necessary bookkeeping, not a proof of independence. The evidence dependency
graph records the keys and routes all trials sharing a key to the same block or to a declared martingale
order. If block-level independence lacks a block-independence certificate, the claim must use a martingale,
e-process, randomization, or conservative union certificate; treating dependent blocks as independent is
evidence-graph debt and is inadmissible for strict durable promotion.
Criterion 6(Block independence certificate).A block-independence certificate is admissible when block
assignment is committed before target evaluation, block-level sampling or treatment randomization is
40

[[page 41]]
independent across blocks, reducer-relevant external snapshots, caches, model-policy episodes, reviewer
batches, and preprocessing jobs are disjoint across blocks or replaced by deterministic archived artifacts,
no target outcome or calibration result is reused across blocks, and the evidence dependency graph
has no shared reducer-relevant ancestor between distinct block summaries. If a shared dependency
remains, the affected blocks must be merged or the certificate must switch to a martingale, e-process,
randomization, or conservative union rule.
Theorem 10(Randomization paired certificate).If, for a fixed set of tasks and committed paired
execution artifacts, treatment labels identifying𝐶0 and 𝐶1 are assigned by a known randomization
scheme independent of candidate outcomes under the no-improvement sharp null, then the randomization
distribution of the paired statistic gives an exact finite-sample p-value and, after thresholding at the
allocated level𝛼, a valid target-channel certificate for that null. The certificate is target-scoped and
does not require independent task sampling; external interference not fixed by the randomization design
remains protocol debt.
Proof. Under the sharp null, relabeling according to the committed randomization scheme leaves the
joint target-outcome table invariant. The p-value computed from the randomization distribution is
therefore valid conditionally on the observed fixed artifacts. Any unrandomized interference is outside
the exchangeability argument.
Theorem 11(Candidate-search correction).If 𝐾 candidate compilers are compared against a baseline
using the same evaluation family, assigning each fixed comparison level𝛼/𝐾 controls family-wise false
promotion at level at most𝛼. Sequential candidate search requires alpha spending, confidence sequences,
e-processes, or a holdout ledger; otherwise the resulting certificate is not no-meta valid.
Proof. The fixed-candidate statement follows from Bonferroni’s union bound. Sequential or adaptive
reuse requires a procedure whose validity is preserved under optional stopping or adaptive selection.
9.3 Claim-Specific Vector Promotion
Certification Rule 20(Acceptance-predicate protected promotion bound).Let C be a claim object
with evidence objectE, conservative certificate calculusKC, target-firewall and experiment protocol
commitmentΘ, vector debt algebra( DC,⊕, 0,⪯𝐷), vector reducerℛ𝑣𝑒𝑐
C , promotion profile P, and
baseline protected-floor record𝑍0. SupposeK C validates the paired lower certificate vector𝐿𝑣𝑒𝑐
Δ , every
debt certificate in𝑈C, protected-floor certificates, receipt-obligation certificates, runtime-conformance
envelopes, model-policy envelopes, closed-world obligation-coverage certificates, open-world residual
certificates, target-attack certificates, and receipt integrity and availability certificates on a simultaneous
event whose failure probability is at most𝛼. If
𝐴𝑐𝑐𝑒𝑝𝑡P(𝐿𝑣𝑒𝑐
Δ ,𝑈 C,𝑍 0) = 1,
and every structured coordinate matched by𝐼𝑓𝑜𝑟𝑏𝑖𝑑
P is certified zero with no unsupported obligation,
then the observable evidence supplies a profile-admissible lower bound for exactly the claim objectC,
with confidence at least1−𝛼. If a required coordinate is missing, unrepresented in𝐺𝐸, unbounded,
unestimated, or positive in a forbidden coordinate, the original strict claim is non-promotable. A
separate weaker, narrower, shorter-horizon, or shadow/lease claim may be evaluated only by declaring
a new claim object and evidence object.
Proof. On the simultaneous-validity event supplied by the certificate calculus,𝐿𝑣𝑒𝑐
Δ lower-bounds the
paired improvement vector for the protocol-conformant experiment and estimand. Each bounded debt
41

[[page 42]]
certificate upper-bounds a declared way in which the claim could overstate that vector or understate
protected, conformance, availability, model-policy, scope, open-world, or target-attack risk. The vector
reducer maps compensable bounded debts conservatively intoVC. The acceptance predicate gives the
profile-admissible lower bound, while the forbidden coordinate check prevents non-compensable gaps
from being offset. Observable closure, the target firewall, evidence-object replayability, runtime and
model-policy conformance, closed-world obligation extraction, open-world residual containment, and
receipt sufficiency ensure that every decision input is ledger-measurable and that candidate-defined
target truth is not used.
10 Cognitive Impedance and Promotion Scope
Definition 58(Cognitive impedance).For fixed model-policy𝑀, compiler𝐶, and workload𝐷, the
cognitive impedance vector is
𝑍𝑀
𝐶 (𝐷) = (𝑍𝑜𝑏𝑠,𝑍𝑎𝑐𝑡,𝑍ℎ𝑜𝑟,𝑍𝑟𝑒𝑝,𝑍ℎ𝑎𝑛,𝑍𝑣𝑒𝑟,𝑍𝑐𝑡𝑥,𝑍𝑎𝑢𝑡ℎ,𝑍𝑟𝑖𝑠𝑘,𝑍𝑎𝑢𝑑𝑖𝑡,𝑍𝑡𝑎𝑟).
Every component must be estimated from observable traces, manifests, receipts, or predeclared calibration
experiments. Each raw component may be mapped through a predeclared monotone calibrator¯𝑍𝑖 =
𝜓𝑖(𝑍𝑖)∈[0,1].
Definition 59(Target-relevant projected field).For an impedance measurement protocol, a field is
target-relevant only if it belongs to a predeclared target input set
𝑅𝑒𝑎𝑑𝑡𝑎𝑟
C =𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑑𝑠(𝜋 𝑇 )∪𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑑𝑠(𝑙𝑜𝑠𝑠_𝑚𝑎𝑝 I)∪𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑑𝑠(𝐸𝑥𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑐𝑡(𝐹 𝐶,𝑇,C))
or to a protected-boundary input set declared before candidate evaluation. Target relevance is therefore
syntactic and operational: it is determined by committed projections, reducers, loss maps, and obligation
extractors, not by inspecting target outcomes after the fact.
Definition 60(Action-exposure measurement distribution).The action-exposure distribution for𝑍𝑎𝑐𝑡
is a committed distribution𝑃𝐾 over model-visible contexts𝐾, induced either by the workload sampler
before target evaluation or by a predeclared calibration sampler independent of target holdouts. For a
deterministic menu compiler, exposure can be measured by
E𝐾∼𝑃𝐾[log|Menu 𝐶(𝐾)|]and𝐻(MenuID 𝐶(𝐾)).
For stochastic staged exposure, the compiler must declare a kernel𝑃𝐶(𝐸|𝐾 )over exposed menu sets,
and exposure entropy is𝐻(𝐸|𝐾 )under 𝑃𝐾⊗𝑃𝐶. Empirical handle-selection entropy is computed
from model selectionŝ︀𝐴 only on a calibration split disjoint from target holdouts unless the evidence
dependency graph routes the reuse through a valid joint, martingale, e-process, or conservative union
rule.
Definition 61(Impedance measurement protocol).For each impedance component𝑍𝑗, the claim
object must declare an estimator
̂︀𝑍𝑗 =𝑔 𝑗(𝜆1:𝑁,𝐹𝐶,𝑅𝐶,Θ𝑐𝑎𝑙),
a validity domain𝐷𝑜𝑚𝑗, a confidence statement or deterministic audit rule, a monotone calibrator
𝜓𝑗 : 𝐷𝑜𝑚𝑗→ [0, 1], and a missingness rule. The estimator may read only observable traces𝜆1:𝑁,
manifests 𝐹𝐶, receipts𝑅𝐶, predeclared calibration experimentsΘ𝑐𝑎𝑙, the action-exposure distribution
42

[[page 43]]
for 𝑍𝑎𝑐𝑡, and the committed target/protected input sets above. Calibration data must be disjoint
from target holdouts unless the evidence dependency graph routes the reuse through a valid joint
or anytime procedure. If𝑍𝑗 is protected and no estimator or confidence statement is available, the
coordinate is inadmissible for strict promotion. If𝑍𝑗 is not protected, the coordinate may be reported
as diagnostic-only but cannot support a protected-dominance claim.
43

[[page 44]]
Component Observable estimator examples Missing or uncalibrated status
𝑍𝑜𝑏𝑠 Fraction of fields in𝑅𝑒𝑎𝑑𝑡𝑎𝑟
C absent from
model-visible observations; parser loss
against committed schemas;
observation-delay receipts.
Scope or open-world debt if the missing
field is in the committed target input set.
𝑍𝑎𝑐𝑡 E𝐾∼𝑃𝐾[log|Menu 𝐶(𝐾)|],
𝐻(MenuID𝐶(𝐾)), or𝐻(𝐸|𝐾)for a
declared staged-exposure kernel;
empirical selection entropy of̂︀𝐴only on
a calibration split disjoint from target
holdouts; handle-collision rate,
invalid-call rate, schema-repair rate, and
staged-exposure miss rate.
Diagnostic-only unless tied to protected
or target debt.
𝑍ℎ𝑜𝑟 Exposed dependency depth, unrepaired
multi-step chain length, or failure-budget
horizon before validation.
Bounded by horizon-compression
certificate or left diagnostic.
𝑍𝑟𝑒𝑝 Replay failure probability,
nondeterministic artifact rate, and
missing archived-response rate.
Replay or availability debt.
𝑍ℎ𝑎𝑛 Handle ambiguity under blinded selection
tests or class-confusion matrices whose
prompts, handles, and labels are
generated from a calibration split
independent of target holdouts under the
no-leakage filtration.
Selection debt; protected if wrong handle
can cross authority or safety boundaries.
𝑍𝑣𝑒𝑟 Validator false-pass/false-reject bounds,
validation latency, and uncovered
obligation rate.
Validator or protected debt.
𝑍𝑐𝑡𝑥 Summary-loss certificate, context
truncation rate, taint-preservation
failures, and retrieval miss rate.
Summary or taint debt.
𝑍𝑎𝑢𝑡ℎ Excess authority join, ambient credential
exposure, grant-state ambiguity, and
policy-denial false pass.
Protected authority debt, inadmissible by
default for strict promotion.
𝑍𝑟𝑖𝑠𝑘 Irreversibility class, rollback residual,
external side-effect rate, and
compensation coverage.
Protected or residual-effect debt.
𝑍𝑎𝑢𝑑𝑖𝑡 Reducer-read field availability, receipt
completeness, clock-order ambiguity, and
retention horizon.
Receipt or availability debt.
𝑍𝑡𝑎𝑟 Target-firewall leakage tests, holdout
contamination audits, target-projection
invariance, and candidate-controlled
evaluator surface.
Target-leakage debt, inadmissible by
default for strict promotion.
44

[[page 45]]
Criterion 7(Calibrator admissibility).A calibrator 𝜓𝑗 is admissible only if its monotonicity direction,
unit, calibration ledger, sampling rule, validity domain, and confidence or audit rule are committed
before the candidate decision. A post hoc rescaling of impedance is diagnostic only and cannot support
protected dominance, debt reduction, or a promotion profile.
Definition 62(Protected partial order).Partition components into performance dimensions𝑃 and
protected dimensions𝐻. A candidate𝐶 1 protected-dominates𝐶 0 on promotion scope𝑆, written
𝑍𝐶1⪯𝒦,𝑆 𝑍𝐶0,
if every protected dimension has a simultaneous non-worsening certificate on𝑆, every protected floor
has a lower or upper certificate in the safe direction, and any component outside𝑆 that is worse
is quarantined and unreachable from𝑆 under the conservative scope-closure certificate. Protected
dimensions are non-compensable: a performance gain cannot offset a protected-floor failure unless the
claim object explicitly narrows the scope to exclude the affected component.
Theorem 12(Protected-floor simultaneous control).If 𝑚𝐻 protected dimensions are tested with
predeclared one-sided certificates and the allocated failure probabilities sum to at most𝛼𝐻, then
all protected non-worsening and floor claims hold simultaneously with probability at least1−𝛼 𝐻.
A protected dimension without a certificate is protected debt with inadmissible status for durable,
irreversible, or high-risk strict promotion; shadow, lease, canary, or reversible profiles may admit
bounded forms only with explicit monitoring and rollback obligations.
Proof. Apply the union bound, or the predeclared simultaneous confidence procedure, to the protected-
dimension failure events. Non-compensability follows from the definition of the protected partial order
and cannot be repaired by target-channel performance margin.
Theorem 13(Impedance non-sufficiency).Even if 𝑍𝐶1⪯𝒦,𝑆 𝑍𝐶0, target-channel improvement need
not follow. Impedance components are diagnostics and protected-floor guards, not sufficient statistics
for the target outcome. Promotion therefore requires a direct paired target-channel certificate.
Proof. Choose two compilers with identical observable impedance diagnostics on a workload but
different target-relevant recorded task features or different target-channel sensitivity not captured by
the chosen diagnostics. Then the partial order cannot determine the target outcome. Thus direct
target evidence is required.
Definition 63(Scoped promotion).A promotion decision is Promote(𝐶1,𝑆,𝑇,𝐵 ): compiler𝐶1 is
promoted only for scope𝑆, target channel𝑇, and budget𝐵. Quarantined handles, menus, validators,
policies, or summaries are not included in𝑆.
Definition 64(Abstract scope interpretation).An abstract scope interpretation is a pair(𝛼𝑠𝑐𝑜𝑝𝑒,𝐺 #
𝑆 )
where𝛼𝑠𝑐𝑜𝑝𝑒 maps concrete promoted execution states and transitions to abstract vertices and edges, and
𝐺#
𝑆 is a conservative product graph over exposure, policy, and authority abstractions. The abstraction
includes staged exposure, dynamic tool discovery, callbacks, generated arguments, fallback menus, policy
states, authority states, ambient authority, delegation, and grant transitions. It is sound when every
concrete promoted trace projects through𝛼𝑠𝑐𝑜𝑝𝑒 to a path in𝐺#
𝑆. The construction follows the standard
abstract-interpretation pattern: the abstract graph must overapproximate reachable concrete behavior
rather than merely sample it [23].
Definition 65(Abstract promotion product graph).For a compiled field and abstract scope interpre-
tation, let
𝐺#
𝑆 =𝐺 #
𝑒𝑥𝑝×𝐺 #
𝑝𝑜𝑙×𝐺 #
𝑎𝑢𝑡ℎ
45

[[page 46]]
restricted to abstract transitions not ruled out by ledger-admissible gates. A quarantined component set
𝑄 is abstract-scope-closed from𝑆 when no vertex reachable from an initial promoted abstract vertex in
𝐺#
𝑆 exposes or executes a component in𝑄.
Definition 66(Bounded-horizon scope certificate).For a claim with finite horizon𝐻, a bounded-
horizon scope certificate is
𝑆𝑐𝑜𝑝𝑒𝐻 = (𝐻,𝛼𝑠𝑐𝑜𝑝𝑒,𝑅𝑒𝑎𝑐ℎ #
𝐻,𝐸 #
𝐻,𝑄,𝑚𝑒𝑡ℎ𝑜𝑑,𝑆𝑖𝑚 𝐻,𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑝𝑙𝑒𝑡𝑒),
where 𝑅𝑒𝑎𝑐ℎ#
𝐻 and 𝐸#
𝐻 are produced by on-the-fly reachability, dominance-pruned abstraction, or
finite widening, and𝑆𝑖𝑚𝐻 is a scope simulation certificate. The flag𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑝𝑙𝑒𝑡𝑒 = 1is admissible only
when 𝑆𝑖𝑚𝐻 proves that every promoted concrete trace of length at most𝐻 maps to a path in the
recorded reachable abstract graph. The certificate supports only claims whose horizon is at most𝐻.
Durable unbounded claims require a finite fixpoint or an inductive invariant; timeout, pruning without
dominance proof, or incomplete widening is scope debt, not a proof of closure. Reachability over the
finite abstract artifact is the operational part of the certificate [24].
Definition 67(Scope simulation certificate).A scope simulation certificate is
𝑆𝑖𝑚𝐻 = (𝐼𝑛𝑖𝑡,𝑆𝑡𝑒𝑝,𝑂𝑣𝑒𝑟,𝐸𝑝𝑜𝑐ℎ,𝑄𝑢𝑎𝑟𝑎𝑛𝑡𝑖𝑛𝑒,𝐻𝑎𝑠ℎ,𝑐𝑜𝑣𝑒𝑟𝑎𝑔𝑒),
where𝐼𝑛𝑖𝑡 proves every promoted concrete initial state maps into the abstract initial set,𝑆𝑡𝑒𝑝 proves
every manifest-admissible concrete transition either maps to an abstract transition, is rejected by a
gate, or is routed to quarantine,𝑂𝑣𝑒𝑟 records the abstract transition overapproximation,𝐸𝑝𝑜𝑐ℎ binds
resource epochs and external snapshots used by the proof,𝑄𝑢𝑎𝑟𝑎𝑛𝑡𝑖𝑛𝑒 proves excluded components are
not promoted,𝐻𝑎𝑠ℎ names the reachable graph artifact, and𝑐𝑜𝑣𝑒𝑟𝑎𝑔𝑒 states the horizon, grammar,
callback, fallback, and generated-code surfaces covered. A missing step case, unmodeled external call,
unmonitored dynamic transition, or unproved dominance pruning is unsupported scope debt for strict
promotion.
Definition 68(Widening soundness certificate).For dynamic tool discovery, callbacks, generated
code, or fallback menus, a widening soundness certificate is
𝑊𝑖𝑑𝑒𝐻 = (𝒢𝑑𝑦𝑛,𝑝𝑎𝑟𝑠𝑒𝑟,𝑚𝑜𝑛𝑖𝑡𝑜𝑟,𝑊 𝐻,𝑒𝑑𝑔𝑒_𝑟𝑢𝑙𝑒,𝑞𝑢𝑎𝑟𝑎𝑛𝑡𝑖𝑛𝑒,𝑡𝑜𝑡𝑎𝑙𝑖𝑡𝑦,𝑈 𝑤𝑖𝑑𝑒).
It is admissible only when totality is proved by four observable checker conditions: every generated
transition is parsed into𝒢𝑑𝑦𝑛 or rejected, the monitor covers every execution path for generated
transitions, parse failure, monitor failure, and generated-transition rejection route to quarantine before
execution or target visibility, and every accepted or quarantined transition emits a receipt. The finite
widening 𝑊𝐻 must cover all accepted grammar productions at the claim horizon;𝑒𝑑𝑔𝑒_𝑟𝑢𝑙𝑒 must
include every abstract edge induced by a grammar production and authority state; and𝑈𝑤𝑖𝑑𝑒 records any
conservative overapproximation debt. If widening is incomplete, non-total, timed out, pruned without
dominance proof, or touches a forbidden coordinate without exact zero, strict durable promotion is
non-promotable.
Theorem 14(Sound abstract exposure construction).Suppose the compiled field’s transition cycle,
staged exposure policy, dynamic tool-discovery rules, callback rules, fallback menus, argument-generation
schemas, authority grants, delegation rules, ambient-authority sources, and policy automaton are all
represented by finite manifest relations, or by declared grammars with widening soundness certificates
at the promotion horizon. Construct𝐺#
𝑆 by abstracting concrete observable states to tuples of exposed
46

[[page 47]]
handles, policy state, authority scope, taint class, resource epoch class, and callback/fallback mode,
and include every abstract edge induced by any manifest-admissible concrete transition unless a ledger-
admissible gate rule excludes it. Then the abstraction map from concrete promoted traces to those
tuples is sound: every concrete promoted trace projects to a path in𝐺#
𝑆. If a transition source is not
enumerable, not parsed, or not conservatively widened by a sound certificate, its target-relevant edges
are unsupported scope obligations; strict durable promotion is non-promotable.
Proof. Each concrete promoted transition is generated by one of the committed transition sources:
staging, discovery, callback, fallback, argument formation, authority grant, delegation, policy update,
or ordinary execution. The construction includes the abstract image of every transition from these
sources unless the gate excludes it. Therefore induction on trace length maps every concrete prefix
to a path in𝐺#
𝑆. An unparsed, non-enumerable, or non-widened source breaks the induction and is
unsupported for strict scope closure.
Theorem 15(Abstract scope-closure soundness).If( 𝛼𝑠𝑐𝑜𝑝𝑒,𝐺 #
𝑆 )is a sound abstract scope inter-
pretation, and no reachable vertex of𝐺#
𝑆 exposes or executes a quarantined component in𝑄, then
no concrete promoted trace can expose or execute a component in𝑄. If abstraction soundness is
uncertified, the missing inclusion bound is scope debt.
Proof. Suppose a concrete promoted trace reaches𝑄. Soundness of 𝛼𝑠𝑐𝑜𝑝𝑒 maps that trace to a
reachable abstract path in𝐺#
𝑆 exposing or executing𝑄, contradicting the abstract reachability premise.
Without abstraction soundness, the abstract graph may omit a concrete dynamic path and therefore
cannot support the scope-closure claim without debt.
Theorem 16(Bounded-horizon scope soundness).If a bounded-horizon scope certificate has an
admissible 𝑆𝑖𝑚𝐻, 𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑝𝑙𝑒𝑡𝑒 = 1, every vertex in𝑅𝑒𝑎𝑐ℎ#
𝐻 avoids exposing or executing𝑄, and the
claim horizon is at most𝐻, then no promoted concrete trace within the claimed horizon can expose or
execute a quarantined component in𝑄. If completeness is not certified by simulation, invariant, or
widening soundness, the missing paths are scope debt and strict durable promotion is non-promotable.
Proof.The simulation certificate maps every promoted concrete trace of length at most𝐻to a path
inside𝑅𝑒𝑎𝑐ℎ#
𝐻. If a concrete trace reached𝑄, its abstract image would expose or execute𝑄 in𝑅𝑒𝑎𝑐ℎ#
𝐻,
contradicting the certificate. Without simulation-backed completeness, the overapproximation premise
is absent.
11 Affordance Compiler Correctness
A compiler is a pass DAG𝐺𝐶 = (𝑃𝐶,𝐸𝐶)with passes such as state exposure, effect analysis, handle
typing, authority binding, validator placement, rollback classification, context packing, staged menu
generation, receipt binding, target binding, and quarantine scoping. The dependency order matters:
authority binding depends on handle typing; rollback depends on effect analysis; receipt binding
depends on validators and authority; context packing depends on staged exposure.
A compiler must discharge the following observable obligations or classify each gap as bounded
debt, inadmissible debt, or unsupported obligation:
1. Sound exposure.Machine-readable observations must not assert guarantees without evidence
receipts.
2. Observable precondition conservatism.Observable preconditions must state exactly what
they check and what they do not check.
47

[[page 48]]
3. Action soundness.Validator passes must imply declared postconditions only within declared
false-pass bounds.
4.Rollback honesty.Rollback mode and residual effects must be recorded.
5. Authority preservation.A compiled handle must not hide stronger authority than its raw
expansion requires.
6.Policy compatibility.History-dependent policy transitions must be recorded.
7. Receipt completeness.State-changing, authority-changing, or target-relevant actions must
emit reducer-sufficient receipts.
8. Target-channel separation.Candidate-declared validators must not define the target outcome
used to promote the candidate.
9. Obligation extraction.Closed-world manifest, effect, policy, receipt, exposure, and target-
binding fields that can affect the claim must be parsed into explicit obligations; open-world residue
must be excluded, contained, or charged as vector debt.
10. Model-policy envelope.Remote or stochastic model behavior must be covered by a behavioral
envelope before being treated as fixed over the declared horizon.
11.Scope closure.Quarantined components must be unreachable from the promoted scope.
Certification Rule 21(Affordance compiler obligation composition).Let a compiler pass DAG emit
a compiled field together with ledger records for exposure, precondition conservatism, action validation,
rollback residuals, authority preservation, policy compatibility, receipt completeness, target separation,
closed-world obligation extraction, open-world residual containment, runtime conformance, model-policy
conformance, and scope closure. If each pass obligation is either discharged by an observable certificate
or recorded as a vector debt term in the claim object, then the compiler output is admissible for no-meta
comparison. It is admissible for promotion exactly when𝐴𝑐𝑐𝑒𝑝𝑡P accepts the paired lower certificate,
bounded debt, protected floors, and forbidden-coordinate zero checks.
Proof. The pass DAG orders obligations so that later passes consume committed artifacts from earlier
passes. Discharged obligations become ledger facts. Undischarged obligations become explicit vector
debt or unsupported obligations. The acceptance predicate refuses stronger scopes, longer horizons, or
more durable promotion profiles for missing or non-admitted debt. Therefore no unrecorded obligation
can support promotion without either a ledger certificate or a claim-level debt term.
12 Main Result: No-Meta Protected Promotion
The primary theorem is a lower-bound composition result. It does not define promotion as the
conjunction of its premises; instead, it states when observable evidence yields a profile-admissible lower
bound for the declared claim. Component explanations are deliberately separated into a later ablation
theorem.
Theorem 17(Master profile-admissible certification theorem).Consider baseline compiler𝐶0 and
candidate compiler𝐶1 under a declared claim objectC = (𝑆,𝑇,𝐷,𝑀,𝐵,𝒦,𝜌 𝑟𝑒𝑐,I,P,𝛼, Θ,ℬ ), and let
𝑍0 be the baseline protected-floor and diagnostic record declared byP. Suppose:
1. an evidence objectEforCis replayable;
48

[[page 49]]
2. a conservative certificate calculus validates the simultaneous certificate event, claim probability
space, evidence dependency graph, validity budget ledger, promotion-profile routing, and debt-
overlap policy forE;
3. the profile artifact 𝑃𝑟𝑜𝑓𝐴𝑟𝑡 P is replayable and its deterministic reducer reads only declared
evidence fields;
4. the target protocol is fixed independently of𝐶1, target-firewalled, governed by the committed holdout
discipline inΘ, and satisfies the no-leakage filtration condition;
5. the paired comparison conforms to the observable experiment protocol inΘand is governed by
a valid fixed-sample, martingale, blocked, clustered, randomization, or anytime lower certificate
appropriate to the declared dependence model;
6. candidate search and optional stopping are corrected by a predeclared procedure;
7. the paired lower certificate, bounded-debt certificates, and baseline protected-floor record satisfy
𝐴𝑐𝑐𝑒𝑝𝑡P(𝐿𝑣𝑒𝑐
Δ ,𝑈 C,𝑍 0) = 1, and every structured coordinate matched by𝐼𝑓𝑜𝑟𝑏𝑖𝑑
P is certified zero
with no unsupported obligation;
8. protected-floor certificates required byP are valid on the simultaneous event; impedance dominance,
if measured, is diagnostic unless named by these protected-floor certificates;
9. all closed-world target-relevant obligations extracted from manifests, effects, policies, receipts,
and target bindings are covered, and open-world residue is excluded, contained, or bounded in a
profile-admissible coordinate;
10. all quarantined components are unreachable from𝑆 in a sound abstract scope interpretation, or in
a complete bounded-horizon scope certificate whose horizon covers the claim;
11. expected receipts are complete under the receipt-obligation automaton;
12. runtime conformance is certified for gates, reducers, and target-relevant tool wrappers over the
executed conformance envelopes;
13. model-policy conformance is certified over the declared behavioral model-policy envelope;
14. target attack-surface and target-leakage debt are bounded or profile-admissible;
15. receipts have integrity and availability sufficient for the claimed reducer tier𝜌𝑟𝑒𝑐.
Then the observable evidence lower-bounds the claim-specific improvement vector by a profile-admissible
value for exactlyC, with confidence at least1−𝛼 under the declared comparison protocol. Thus strict
promotion of the original claim is certifiable only for that scope. The theorem does not certify reference-
channel improvement, deployment improvement, receipt-tier strengthening, a stronger promotion mode,
a longer horizon, or improvement under another target channel unless the corresponding declared
debt certificates and bridge translations are included inC. If any required coordinate is unbounded,
unestimated, unsupported, or forbidden byP, the original strict claim is non-promotable rather than
merely narrowed by implication.
Proof.The paired certificate supplies a lower bound on target-channel improvement for the declared
estimand. The certificate calculus supplies simultaneous validity on the claim probability space and
routes every uncertainty coordinate to bounded debt, inadmissible debt, or unsupported obligation. The
49

[[page 50]]
replayable profile artifact applies the deterministic acceptance predicate to the paired lower certificate,
bounded-debt object, protected-floor certificates, and zero certificates. Monotonicity ensures that
replacing true unknown quantities by conservative lower and upper certificates cannot make a rejected
profile accepted. The forbidden coordinate check prevents protected, open-world, scope, evidence-graph,
target-leakage, conformance, model-policy, or receipt gaps from being offset by unrelated improvement
when the promotion profile forbids them. Obligation extraction prevents coverage from depending
on unrecorded judgment. Abstract scope closure prevents quarantined components from entering
promoted traces. Receipt sufficiency ensures that the certificate is reducer-recomputable and retrievable
at the claimed tier. No hidden evaluator is invoked. Net-vector subtraction appears only in scalar or
half-space profile artifacts that explicitly encode it.
Corollary 2(Scalar bridge-corrected promotion).If the promotion profile reduces to a scalar target-
loss margin and the only bridge debts are target-to-reference measurement and deployment shift, then a
sufficient condition for the stronger bridged claim is
LCert𝑁
Δ,𝛼(𝐶1,𝐶 0)−UCert 𝑡𝑎𝑟−UCert𝑠ℎ𝑖𝑓𝑡 >0.
Without these upper certificates, the claim remains target- and evaluation-scoped. With additional
summary, validator, protected-monitor, replay, availability, conformance, target-attack, or overhead
debt, the vector profile rule applies unless every relevant coordinate has a calibrated scalar reduction.
Theorem 18(World-side amplification separation).There exist task families and fixed model-policies
for which an affordance compiler strictly improves target-channel capability without changing model
weights or the model-policy. In particular, consider tasks requiring an ordered chain of𝑛 primitive
target-relevant operations. Under the raw interface, suppose that, conditional on every previous primitive
operation being correct and on the observable history available at that step, the fixed model-policy has
probability at most1−𝑝 of selecting the correct next primitive operation, for some𝑝∈ (0, 1). If target
success requires every step to be correct, then
P(𝑌𝑟𝑎𝑤 = 1)≤(1−𝑝) 𝑛.
Now suppose a compiled field exposes a contract-bearing macro handle for the same chain, with macro
selection failure event𝑅, macro execution-or-validation target failure event𝑄, P(𝑅)≤𝑟 , P(𝑄)≤
𝑞𝑛, sufficient authority and receipts, and no protected-floor regression. Without any independence
assumption,
P(𝑌𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑝 = 1)≥1−𝑟−𝑞 𝑛.
If𝑞 𝑛 is instead certified asP(𝑄|𝑅 𝑐)≤𝑞 𝑛, then the stronger conditional form
P(𝑌𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑝 = 1)≥(1−𝑟)(1−𝑞 𝑛)
also holds. Thus a certified separation holds exactly when the replayable profile artifact accepts the
raw upper bound, compiled lower bound, admitted bounded debt, protected floors, and zero certificates
through its deterministic𝐴𝑐𝑐𝑒𝑝𝑡P reducer.
Proof. Raw success requires the intersection of𝑛 correct step-selection events. The conditional upper
bound gives the product upper bound by the chain rule without factorizing the step events. Compiled
failure is contained in𝑅∪𝑄 , so the union bound givesP(𝑌𝑐𝑜𝑚𝑝 = 1)≥ 1−𝑟−𝑞 𝑛. If𝑞𝑛 is a conditional
certificate given correct macro selection, thenP(𝑅𝑐∩𝑄𝑐) =P(𝑅𝑐)P(𝑄𝑐|𝑅 𝑐)≥ (1−𝑟 )(1−𝑞𝑛). The
final separation statement is obtained by feeding the raw upper bound, compiled lower bound, and
50

[[page 51]]
all admitted bounded debt into the deterministic profile artifact; separation is certified exactly when
𝐴𝑐𝑐𝑒𝑝𝑡P accepts and no forbidden coordinate constraint is violated.
Certification Rule 22(Macro component reliability rule).Let a macro handle𝑚 replace a raw
expansion𝑎1,...,𝑎 𝑛 under a target channel𝑇. Suppose the ledger contains upper certificates𝜖𝑖𝑚𝑝𝑙 for
macro implementation nonconformance,𝜖𝑣𝑎𝑙 for validator false pass over target-relevant obligations,
𝜖𝑒𝑝𝑜𝑐ℎ for undetected resource-epoch instability,𝜖𝑎𝑢𝑡ℎ for authority-policy misclassification, and𝜖𝑟𝑒𝑠 for
residual rollback or compensation loss in target-failure-equivalent units. Then the macro execution or
validation failure term in the world-side amplification theorem may be bounded by
𝑞𝑛≤𝜖 𝑖𝑚𝑝𝑙 +𝜖𝑣𝑎𝑙 +𝜖𝑒𝑝𝑜𝑐ℎ +𝜖𝑎𝑢𝑡ℎ +𝜖𝑟𝑒𝑠
under the declared vector debt reducer, or by a scalar reducer in the calibrated special case. This
rule is admissible only after the failure-covered macro reliability theorem supplies a cover for the
relevant closed-world obligations. If any required component is missing and not otherwise bounded by a
declared cover, the original macro reliability claim is unsupported; for strict durable promotion it is
non-promotable.
Proof. A target-relevant macro failure must arise from implementation nonconformance, a validator
false pass, an undetected epoch race, an authority-policy error, residual rollback or compensation loss,
or open-world residual debt unless another failure mode is declared. Apply the union bound or the
claim’s vector debt reducer over the declared failure events. Missing coverage is not zero; it is bounded,
inadmissible, or unsupported according to the claim profile.
Definition 69(Macro failure-mode cover).A macro failure-mode cover is a ledger-declared setℱ𝑚 of
failure events for macro handle𝑚 derived from𝐸𝑥𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑐𝑡(𝐹𝐶,𝑇,C )on the closed-world surface, together
with a coverage certificate that every extracted macro obligation failure in the claim scope is contained
in⋃︀
𝐹∈ℱ 𝑚𝐹 up to uncovered or open-world residual debt𝑈𝑢𝑛𝑐𝑜𝑣𝑒𝑟𝑒𝑑. It is not a claim that all analytical
or real-world failures have been enumerated.
Theorem 19(Failure-covered macro reliability).If macro handle𝑚 has a failure-mode coverℱ𝑚,
each𝐹∈ℱ 𝑚 has an observable upper certificate𝜖𝐹, and uncovered failure debt is𝑈𝑢𝑛𝑐𝑜𝑣𝑒𝑟𝑒𝑑, then
𝑞𝑛≤
∑︁
𝐹∈ℱ 𝑚
𝜖𝐹 +𝑈𝑢𝑛𝑐𝑜𝑣𝑒𝑟𝑒𝑑
or the corresponding vector debt-reducer value. If𝐴𝑐𝑐𝑒𝑝𝑡P does not accept the improvement after
including𝑈 𝑢𝑛𝑐𝑜𝑣𝑒𝑟𝑒𝑑, the macro reliability claim is unsupported for the original claim object.
Proof. By closed-world obligation completeness and open-world residual containment, every target-
relevant operational macro failure in the claim surface lies in an extracted obligation or in residual debt.
The cover maps extracted obligation failures to covered events or to the uncovered-debt event. The
union bound gives the displayed upper bound, with vector debt reduction replacing direct summation
when the declared debt coordinates use different units.
13 Component Attribution by Observable Ablation
CIMT does not infer causal component improvement from a final win. Attribution must be certified
by interventions that alter compiler passes while holding other factors fixed or replay-equivalent.
51

[[page 52]]
Definition 70(Pass-ablation family).Let 𝑃 ={𝑝1,...,𝑝 𝑚} be compiler passes. For𝑈⊆𝑃 , let𝐶𝑈
be the compiler in which exactly passes in𝑈 are activated over the baseline, with the same model,
target channel, sandbox, workload, and nonvaried infrastructure.
Definition 71(Predeclared attribution scheme).An attribution scheme is either a committed tele-
scoping path
∅=𝑈 0⊂𝑈 1⊂···⊂𝑈 𝑚 =𝑃,
a committed factorial design, or a committed Shapley-weighted sampling design over pass subsets. For
each pass𝑝𝑗, the scheme defines a random or deterministic marginal contrast𝛿𝑗 as a paired target-
channel difference between two ablation states. Interaction residuals are those parts ofΔ𝑝𝑇
𝐵(𝐶𝑃,𝐶∅)
not represented by the declared marginal sum.
Theorem 20(Observable component attribution).Suppose a pass-ablation family is evaluated by
paired observable replay under a predeclared attribution scheme. LetLCert𝑗 be a simultaneous lower
certificate for the scheme-defined marginal contribution of pass𝑝𝑗, and let UCert𝑖𝑛𝑡 be an upper
certificate on interaction residual or sampling approximation error under that same scheme. Then
Δ𝑝𝑇
𝐵(𝐶𝑃,𝐶∅)≥
𝑚∑︁
𝑗=1
LCert𝑗−UCert𝑖𝑛𝑡
with the stated confidence after the predeclared multiple-comparison correction. Component attribution
is valid only to the extent this ablation ledger exists.
Proof. The attribution scheme defines an explicit decomposition of the paired difference into declared
marginal contrasts plus a residual. The replay ledger lower-bounds each marginal and upper-bounds
the residual on a simultaneous-validity event. Summation yields the stated lower bound. Without
the committed scheme, the same final win could be explained by multiple incompatible marginal
decompositions.
14 Non-Regression and Infrastructure Isolation
Definition 72(Context-shielded, infrastructure-isolated refinement).A compiler 𝐶1 is a context-
shielded, infrastructure-isolated refinement of𝐶0 if the old observation surface, action menu, receipts,
target binding, authority scopes, sandbox image, tool digests, validator digests, credential scopes,
resource quotas, network policy, model-policy envelope, randomization policy, and archived external
responses used by old workloads are identical or replay-equivalent under𝐶1, and new handles are not
exposed unless an explicit stage gate activates them.
Certification Rule 23(Context-shielded non-regression).If 𝐶1 is a context-shielded, infrastructure-
isolated refinement of𝐶0, then for any fixed model-policy using only the old view, the old-workload
trace distribution under𝐶1 is identical to that under𝐶0, up to declared bounded overhead. Old-
workload target-channel capability cannot regress except through declared overhead or violated isolation
assumptions.
Proof. The fixed model-policy envelope receives the same observations, menu, receipts, credentials,
validators, sandbox, randomization policy, and endpoint snapshots. Each transition couples to its
corresponding baseline transition. Any difference must pass through declared overhead, model-policy
drift debt, or failed isolation.
52

[[page 53]]
15 Handle Selection, Capacity, and Staged Exposure
15.1 Set-Valued Handle Selection
Let𝐴*(𝐾)⊆𝐴 be the acceptable handle set under trusted context𝐾. The error is𝑃𝑒 =P(̂︀𝐴 /∈𝐴*(𝐾)).
Let acceptable handles be grouped into classes𝐶𝐴; selecting any handle in the intended class is
acceptable.
Theorem 21(Set-valued handle-capacity bound).Let 𝐶𝐴 be the intended acceptable-handle class and
̂︀𝐶𝐴 the selected class. Conditional on trusted context𝐾, Fano’s inequality in nats gives
𝐻(𝐶𝐴| ̂︀𝐶𝐴,𝐾)≤ℎ(𝑃 𝑒) +𝑃𝑒 log(𝑚−1)
for 𝑚≥ 2classes, where ℎ is binary entropy in nats, interpreted with the standard binary form when
𝑚= 2. For𝑚≥3,
𝑃𝑒≥max
{︃
0,𝐻(𝐶𝐴|𝐾)−𝐼(𝐶 𝐴; ̂︀𝐶𝐴|𝐾)−log 2
log(𝑚−1)
}︃
.
Thus increasing menu cardinality without increasing handle-identifying information forces selection
error unless staged exposure or context reduces𝐻(𝐶𝐴|𝐾).
Proof. Apply Fano’s inequality to the class-selection problem and rearrange for𝑚≥ 3. For𝑚 = 2,
use the binary entropy form directly.
Definition 73(Cost-to-failure map).A staged exposure comparison must use a predeclared map𝜒𝑐𝑜𝑠𝑡
that converts routing and context costs into target-failure-equivalent units, or else compare final paired
target outcomes directly.
Theorem 22(Staged affordance exposure).Let 𝑚 be flat menu size, 𝑘 staged menu size, 𝑞(𝑘)
within-stage class-selection error, and
𝜂∪ =P(𝐸 𝑟𝑜𝑢𝑡𝑒∪𝐸𝑎𝑢𝑡ℎ∪𝐸𝑠𝑢𝑚𝑚𝑎𝑟𝑦)
the probability that staging excludes every acceptable handle. Then
𝑃𝑠𝑡𝑎𝑔𝑒𝑑
𝑒 ≤min{1,𝜂 ∪ + (1−𝜂 ∪)𝑞(𝑘)}.
Staging improves the handle-selection component only if its certified reduction in selection error exceeds
𝜒𝑐𝑜𝑠𝑡(𝐶𝑟𝑜𝑢𝑡𝑒 +𝐶𝑐𝑜𝑛𝑡𝑒𝑥𝑡)and any authority or summary exclusion loss.
Proof. Condition on the exclusion event. If it occurs, error is at most one; otherwise error is at most
𝑞(𝑘). Costs require a predeclared unit translation or direct paired-outcome comparison.
16 Failure-Budget Horizon Compression
Long tasks should be modeled as dependency graphs, not independent chains. Let𝐺𝐷 = (𝑁,𝐸 )be a
task dependency graph. Interface failures, proxy failures, abstraction leakage, and coupling failures
are treated as observable or upper-certified failure-budget terms.
Definition 74(Failure-budget cut).A dependency-cut compiler replaces 𝐸𝑐𝑢𝑡 ⊆𝐸 by a macro-
operation with validators and receipts. Relative to a predeclared target-failure-equivalent loss map𝜑, let
𝐹𝑟𝑒𝑚𝑜𝑣𝑒𝑑 be a lower certificate on expected loss removed by eliminating exposed interface edges, and let
53

[[page 54]]
𝐹𝑎𝑑𝑑𝑒𝑑 be an upper certificate on expected loss introduced by abstraction leakage, proxy loss, coupling,
validator false pass, and macro overhead. The certificates must be computed on disjoint named failure
events or by an inclusion-exclusion reducer that prevents double counting.
Theorem 23(Failure-budget horizon compression).Under a replay-equivalent intervention that fixes
the model, target channel, workload, world snapshot, and nonvaried compiler passes, if
LCert(𝐹𝑟𝑒𝑚𝑜𝑣𝑒𝑑)>UCert(𝐹 𝑎𝑑𝑑𝑒𝑑),
then the dependency cut has a positive certified contribution to target-channel paired improvement.
Without the intervention, the effect is diagnostic, not attributable.
Proof. The intervention isolates the interface cut. The removed failure budget lowers target failure
probability by at least its lower certificate, while added failure modes increase it by at most their
upper certificate. A positive difference is a positive component contribution.
17 Repair, Rollback, and Scope-Closed Quarantine
Definition 75(Repair state).Repair operates only on observable repairable debt𝑒𝑟
𝑡 while the observable
protected predicate \𝑆𝑎𝑓𝑒𝑃𝑟𝑜𝑡 (𝑞𝑜𝑏𝑠
𝑡 ) = 1holds. If the predicate fails, the system emits a quarantine
receipt and exits the promoted scope.
Definition 76(Verifiable repair drift certificate).A repair drift certificate is a ledger-declared tuple
𝐷𝑟𝑖𝑓𝑡𝑅𝑒𝑝𝑎𝑖𝑟= (𝐸 𝑟,𝑉, ̂︀𝑃𝑟,𝜆,𝜈,𝛽,𝛼 𝑟,𝑚𝑒𝑡ℎ𝑜𝑑),
where𝐸𝑟 is a finite or discretized observable repair-debt state space,𝑉 :𝐸𝑟→R≥0 is a committed rank
or Lyapunov candidate,̂︀𝑃𝑟 is either an enumerated repair kernel, a simulator with archived seeds, or
an empirical transition sample with a confidence method, and(𝜆,𝜈,𝛽 )are the asserted drift constants.
The certificate is valid when, with probability at least1−𝛼𝑟, the displayed drift inequality in the next
theorem holds for every promoted repair state in the declared envelope. Without such a certificate,
repair contraction is not certified; strict promotion must use quarantine, or a bounded lease/canary
profile with online monitoring.
Proposition 11(Finite-state Lyapunov certificate).If 𝐸𝑟 is finite,𝑉 is committed, every admissible
repair transition distribution is enumerated or upper-bounded by a confidence set, and the drift inequality
is verified for every state in𝐸𝑟 outside quarantine, then the repair drift certificate is valid on the
confidence event. For empirical multinomial transition estimates, any simultaneous concentration
bound over states and next-state bins may supply the confidence set.
Proof. The certificate reduces the universal drift claim to finitely many expectation inequalities.
Enumeration proves them exactly; a simultaneous confidence set proves them on its validity event.
The protected predicate separates repair states from quarantine states, so protected failures are not
included in the repair regime.
Definition 77(Discretized repair drift certificate).For continuous or high-dimensional repair debt, a
discretized repair drift certificate is
𝐷𝑖𝑠𝑐𝑅𝑒𝑝𝑎𝑖𝑟= (𝐸 𝑟,𝒞,𝛼 𝑟,𝑉 #,𝐿𝑉,𝜂,𝛿,𝜆,𝜈,𝛽,𝑚𝑒𝑡ℎ𝑜𝑑),
54

[[page 55]]
where𝒞 is a finite cell partition or abstraction of the observable repair state space𝐸𝑟, 𝑉 # :𝒞→R ≥0 is
a committed abstract Lyapunov function,𝐿𝑉 or an equivalent one-step residual bound controls variation
of 𝑉 inside each cell and across abstracted successor cells,𝜂 is the discretization error bound, and
𝛿 >0is a robust drift margin. The certificate is admissible only if the verified abstract drift inequality
has slack at least𝜂 +𝛿 on every non-quarantine cell. If the discretization is too coarse to leave positive
margin, repair contraction is unsupported for strict promotion.
Certification Rule 24(Residual-bound construction).The residual bound𝐿𝑉 or 𝜂 in a discretized
repair drift certificate must be supplied by one of four committed mechanisms: an analytic Lipschitz
bound for the concrete Lyapunov candidate, interval arithmetic over each cell and successor cell,
exhaustive cell-corner or finite-domain checking with a monotonicity proof, or an empirical residual
certificate with an allocated confidence budget and declared sample size. An empirical residual certificate
records the calibration source, sampling rule within cells, number of sampled transitions per relevant
cell, residual statistic, simultaneous-validity correction, validity budget ledger row, and evidence-graph
dependencies. It supports only cells covered by its sampling or by a declared monotone dominance
argument. If no residual-bound mechanism is available, or if the verified abstract drift margin is not
larger than the residual bound, repair contraction is unsupported; strict promotion must use quarantine
or a lease/canary profile with online monitoring.
Theorem 24(Discretized repair drift soundness).Suppose a discretized repair drift certificate covers
every promoted repair state and, on its confidence event, every non-quarantine cell𝐶∈𝒞 satisfies the
abstract inequality
E[𝑉 #(𝐶𝑡+1) +𝛽𝐶𝑜𝑠𝑡 𝑡+1|𝐶 𝑡 =𝐶]≤𝜆𝑉 #(𝐶) +𝜈+𝛽𝐶𝑜𝑠𝑡 𝑡−(𝜂+𝛿),0≤𝜆<1.
If the within-cell and abstraction residual error in transferring this inequality to concrete states is at
most 𝜂, then the concrete repair process satisfies the drift inequality with margin𝛿 while \𝑆𝑎𝑓𝑒𝑃𝑟𝑜𝑡 = 1.
Therefore fail-closed repair contraction applies on the certificate-valid event. Without the residual
bound or positive margin, the contraction claim is unsupported.
Proof. For every concrete state in a cell, the abstraction residual changes the one-step drift expression
by at most𝜂. The abstract inequality has slack𝜂 +𝛿, so the concrete inequality retains slack at
least𝛿. The finite-cell confidence event makes the abstract inequalities simultaneous. The fail-closed
contraction theorem then applies to the resulting concrete drift inequality.
Theorem 25(Fail-closed repair contraction).Suppose there is a valid repair drift certificate with
observable Lyapunov function𝑉(𝑒 𝑟)≥0such that, while \𝑆𝑎𝑓𝑒𝑃𝑟𝑜𝑡= 1,
E[𝑉(𝑒𝑟
𝑡+1) +𝛽𝐶𝑜𝑠𝑡 𝑡+1|𝑞 𝑜𝑏𝑠
𝑡 ]≤𝜆𝑉(𝑒 𝑟
𝑡) +𝜈+𝛽𝐶𝑜𝑠𝑡 𝑡,0≤𝜆<1.
Let 𝜏𝑄 be the first time \𝑆𝑎𝑓𝑒𝑃𝑟𝑜𝑡 = 0or the repair process otherwise exits to quarantine. On the
stopped process𝑡+ℎ∧𝜏 𝑄, repairable residual is bounded in expectation while protected violations are
not repaired-through inside the promoted scope. If additionally0≤𝐶𝑜𝑠𝑡 𝑡≤𝐶 max during the repair
regime, then for every finite horizonℎ,
E𝑉(𝑒𝑟
𝑡+ℎ∧𝜏𝑄)≤𝜆 ℎ𝑉(𝑒𝑟
𝑡) + 1−𝜆 ℎ
1−𝜆 (𝜈+𝛽𝐶 max).
Consequently, for any residual threshold𝜏𝑟 >0,
P{𝑉(𝑒𝑟
𝑡+ℎ∧𝜏𝑄)≥𝜏 𝑟}≤ 𝜆ℎ𝑉(𝑒𝑟
𝑡) + (1−𝜆 ℎ)(𝜈+𝛽𝐶 max)/(1−𝜆)
𝜏𝑟
.
55

[[page 56]]
Thus a lease or canary profile with residual threshold𝜏𝑟 is admissible only when this tail upper
bound, plus any protected-monitor and conformance debt, is accepted by𝐴𝑐𝑐𝑒𝑝𝑡P for the lease horizon;
otherwise repair supplies quarantine behavior but not a contraction-supported promotion claim.
Proof. The drift inequality and𝐶𝑜𝑠𝑡𝑡+1≥ 0imply E[𝑉 (𝑒𝑟
𝑡+1)|𝑞 𝑜𝑏𝑠
𝑡 ]≤𝜆𝑉 (𝑒𝑟
𝑡) +𝜈 +𝛽𝐶𝑜𝑠𝑡𝑡 until
the stopping time. Optional stopping on the bounded finite horizon applies to the stopped repair
process because quarantine freezes or exits the promoted repair regime. If𝐶𝑜𝑠𝑡𝑡≤𝐶 max, iterating the
resulting affine recursion gives the finite-horizon expectation bound. Markov’s inequality gives the
displayed tail bound. When the protected predicate fails, the process leaves the repair regime and
enters quarantine by definition.
Certification Rule 25(Quarantine scope-closure rule).Let 𝑄 be quarantined components and𝑆 a
promoted scope. If(𝛼𝑠𝑐𝑜𝑝𝑒,𝐺 #
𝑆 )is sound, 𝑄 is unreachable from all promoted initial vertices in𝐺#
𝑆,
and no handle in𝑄 is exposed by any reachable vertex of𝐺#
𝑆, then promotion of𝑆 is not contaminated
by quarantined components.
Proof. This is the abstract scope-closure soundness theorem applied to quarantine. If no reachable
abstract vertex exposes or executes𝑄, no included concrete promoted trace can do so.
Certification Rule 26(Protected-monitor coverage).If a protected monitor has a false-negative
upper certificate𝜖𝐻, then the probability that a promoted trace contains an unquarantined protected
violation is bounded by𝜖𝐻 plus any certified clearance error. If no such bound exists for a protected
dimension, that dimension is inadmissible for strict durable or irreversible promotion.
Proof. A promoted protected violation must either be missed by the monitor or miscleared by the
quarantine release mechanism. Apply the union bound.
18 Context Packing and Summary Loss
Context packing is a compiler pass, not merely a readability technique. It determines what the
model can observe, which handles are salient, which constraints are visible, and which receipts can be
interpreted.
Definition 78(Approximate observable summary bisimulation).A summary compilerΣis
(𝜖𝑜,𝜖𝑎,𝜖𝑝,𝜖𝐺)-bisimilar to a fuller observation process for horizon𝐻 under fixed model-policyΠ𝑀 when,
at each step before divergence, the summary process induces observable emission total-variation error
at most𝜖𝑜, model action-kernel total-variation error at most𝜖𝑎, environment transition total-variation
error at most𝜖𝑝, and target-channel predicate disagreement at horizon at most𝜖𝐺.
Theorem 26(Approximate observable bisimulation summary bound).For horizon𝐻, suppose a
summary abstraction is(𝜖𝑜,𝜖𝑎,𝜖𝑝,𝜖𝐺)-bisimilar under the fixed model-policy. Then for binary target
success𝑌and summarized success ¯𝑌,
|P(𝑌= 1)−P( ¯𝑌= 1)|≤𝐻(𝜖 𝑜 +𝜖𝑎 +𝜖𝑝) +𝜖𝐺.
Proof. Couple the full and summarized processes step by step. Before divergence, observation emission,
model action, and environment transition kernels can each fail to couple with probability bounded
by their total-variation errors. The union bound over𝐻 steps gives divergence probability at most
𝐻(𝜖𝑜 +𝜖𝑎 +𝜖𝑝). Conditional on no divergence, target predicate disagreement is at most𝜖𝐺.
56

[[page 57]]
Certification Rule 27(Summary ablation loss certificate).LetΣbe a summary compiler andΣ 0
a full-observable or stronger-summary baseline. In paired replay, define𝐷𝑖 =𝑌 Σ
𝑖 −𝑌 Σ0
𝑖 . An upper
certificate on−E𝐷𝑖 is a no-meta summary-loss certificateUCert𝑠𝑢𝑚 and may be subtracted from
bridged promotion margins.
Proof. The paired replay directly measures target-channel loss attributable to the summary pass under
the declared intervention protocol.
Theorem 27(Empirical summary-loss upper certificate).Under a protocol-conformant paired replay
comparing summary compilerΣwith fuller baselineΣ 0, let
𝐿𝑖 =𝑌 Σ0
𝑖 −𝑌 Σ
𝑖 ∈[−1,1], ̂︀𝐿𝑁 = 1
𝑁
𝑁∑︁
𝑖=1
𝐿𝑖.
If the paired trials are independent, then
UCert𝑠𝑢𝑚,𝛼 = ̂︀𝐿𝑁 +
√︃
2 log(1/𝛼)
𝑁
satisfiesP(E𝐿𝑖≤UCert 𝑠𝑢𝑚,𝛼)≥ 1−𝛼. Martingale or anytime variants may replace this bound when
replay is adaptive. This certificate uses only target-channel outcomes and does not require access to the
model’s full action distribution.
Proof. Apply Hoeffding’s inequality to variables in an interval of length two, bounding the probability
thatE𝐿 𝑖−̂︀𝐿𝑁 exceeds the displayed radius.
19 Effect-Safe Contract Composition and Receipt Sufficiency
Certification Rule 28(Effect-safe contract composition).Let 𝑎 and 𝑏 be handles. The composition
𝑐=𝑏∘𝑎is effect-safe only if:
1.𝑝𝑜𝑠𝑡 𝑎 is sufficient for the observable preconditions required by𝑏;
2.Eff (𝑎)⊗Eff (𝑏)is safely defined in the effect algebra, meaning write/read conflicts, external effects,
irreversibility, authority effects, and epoch dependencies are discharged by order, lease, transaction,
or commutativity certificates;
3.Req(𝑐) = Req(𝑎)∨Req(𝑏)is policy-admissible;
4. rollback residual satisfies
𝑅𝑒𝑠𝑖𝑑𝑢𝑎𝑙(𝑐)≤𝑅𝑒𝑠𝑖𝑑𝑢𝑎𝑙(𝑎) +𝑅𝑒𝑠𝑖𝑑𝑢𝑎𝑙(𝑏) +𝐼𝑛𝑡𝑒𝑟𝑎𝑐𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛𝑅𝑒𝑠𝑖𝑑𝑢𝑎𝑙(𝑎,𝑏);
5. receipts for𝑎and𝑏are sufficient to reconstruct the composed effect.
Under these conditions, 𝑐 inherits postcondition, authority, rollback, and receipt obligations with
false-pass bound no larger than the certified sum of component and interaction bounds.
Proof. Sequential contract composition supplies the logical pre/post relation. The effect algebra
discharges side-effect conflicts. Authority join and policy admissibility control permissions. Residual
and false-pass bounds compose by union bounds over component and interaction failures.
57

[[page 58]]
Certification Rule 29(Least-privilege macro composition).Let a macro handle𝑚 have a ledger-
declared raw expansion𝑎1,...,𝑎 𝑛. If
Req(𝑚) =
𝑛⋁︁
𝑗=1
Req(𝑎𝑗),
the join is policy-admissible, every delegated or ambient authority used by the macro is included in the
join, and the macro’s receipt records the expansion commitment and authority basis, then𝑚 hides no
stronger authority than its raw expansion. IfReq(𝑚)is strictly above the join, the excess is authority
overhead; if it is below the join, the macro is an authority-underdeclaration and cannot be promoted
without quarantine or an explicit protected-scope narrowing.
Proof. The join is the least authority scope dominating every component requirement. Equality
therefore records exactly the authority required by the expansion, provided delegated and ambient
authority are included. A larger requirement is conservative but adds overhead; a smaller requirement
fails to dominate some component and hides authority from the gate.
Certification Rule 30(Minimal audit receipt sufficiency).Letℛ be a class of deterministic reducers.
For each reducer𝑅∈ℛ , let𝐹𝑖𝑒𝑙𝑑𝑠 (𝑅)be the set of receipt or manifest fields it reads. A receipt schema
𝑆is audit sufficient forℛiff ⋃︁
𝑅∈ℛ
𝐹𝑖𝑒𝑙𝑑𝑠(𝑅)⊆𝑆.
The minimal audit-sufficient schema is𝑆⋆ =⋃︀
𝑅∈ℛ𝐹𝑖𝑒𝑙𝑑𝑠(𝑅)up to field equivalence.
Proof. If all read fields are present, every reducer has its inputs. If a required field is missing, the
reducer cannot be guaranteed to reproduce its output for all traces. Minimality follows by set union.
Certification Rule 31(Redacted receipt sufficiency).If a reducer uses only a commitment, hash,
range proof, or proof-of-possession predicate for a secret field and never reads the secret itself, then
replacing the secret by that proof object preserves audit sufficiency for that reducer while reducing
exposure of sensitive content.
Proof. The reducer’s input-output behavior is unchanged because it never consumes the raw secret. It
consumes only the committed predicate.
Certification Rule 32(Retention-aware certificate decay).If a receipt field required by reducer class
ℛ is lawfully deleted, expired by retention policy, or replaced by a redaction proof at time𝑡, then every
future claim whose reducer reads the raw field after𝑡 decays to the strongest claim supported by the
remaining commitment or proof object. Integrity of past commitments may remain, but replay, forensic,
or bridge claims requiring the deleted raw content become unsupported unless an equivalent proof object
was committed before deletion.
Proof. After deletion or expiry, the raw field is no longer available to future reducers. A reducer that
reads only the remaining proof object is unaffected; a reducer that reads the raw field lacks an input.
Therefore the supported claim is exactly the one whose reducer inputs are still present, derivable, or
proof-supported.
Certification Rule 33(Availability-aware receipt sufficiency).For a reducer classℛ and future
audit horizon 𝐻, suppose every field read by reducers inℛ is either stored directly in the ledger,
derivable from committed deterministic artifacts, or archived with integrity commitments, retention at
least 𝐻, access-policy commitments, and replication or escrow proof. Then reducer inputs are both
58

[[page 59]]
integrity-bound and available for recomputation throughout horizon𝐻, except on the explicitly certified
archive-failure event. Without availability evidence, the claim is limited to integrity-only audit at the
time artifacts are accessible.
Proof. Integrity follows from the commitments. Availability follows from the recorded retention, access,
and replication or escrow evidence for each reducer-read artifact. The only remaining failure modes
are those admitted by the archive-failure certificate, which become availability debt. If an artifact
lacks availability evidence, the reducer may know whether a future artifact has changed but cannot
guarantee that it can retrieve it.
Certification Rule 34(Time-indexed availability).Let0 = 𝑡0 <𝑡 1 <···<𝑡 𝑚 =𝐻 be committed
audit checkpoints. If at each checkpoint every reducer-read archived artifact has a fresh observable
availability certificate with failure bound𝜖𝑗, then replay availability over horizon𝐻 fails with probability
at most∑︀𝑚
𝑗=1𝜖𝑗 plus any certified gap risk between checkpoints. Availability claims beyond the last
certified checkpoint are unsupported unless covered by a retention or escrow certificate for that interval.
Proof. At each checkpoint, failure of availability is bounded by the checkpoint certificate. Apply the
union bound across checkpoints and add the declared risk for intervals not directly checked. No claim
is made for intervals outside the certified horizon.
Certification Rule 35(Reducer-replay receipt sufficiency).If, beyond audit sufficiency, receipts
include deterministic tool digests, container digests, dependency lockfiles, model-policy commitments,
prompt commitments, random seeds or policies, network policies, archived external responses for
every reducer-relevant nondeterministic interaction, locale, timezone, and sandbox images, then replay
reconstructs reducer-relevant execution outputs. This rule does not claim bit-level replay of uncontrolled
external services; it claims equality of reducer inputs and outputs under archived or deterministic
substitutes.
Proof. All reducer-relevant nondeterminism is either fixed by commitment, seed, and policy, or replaced
by an archived response whose commitment is in the ledger. Deterministic replay under those reducer
inputs yields identical reducer-relevant outputs. External behavior not archived or deterministic is
outside the reducer-replay tier.
Certification Rule 36(Forensic receipt sufficiency).If receipts additionally preserve environment
artifacts, external response bodies or legally admissible commitments, network policy records, timestamps,
locale, timezone, dependency artifacts, sandbox images, and authority grants, then the ledger supports
forensic inspection of the causal basis for reducer outputs up to explicitly declared redactions. Redacted
fields preserve this tier only for questions answered by their proof objects.
Proof. Forensic inspection requires the causal artifacts used by the execution and reducer. The listed
fields provide those artifacts or commitments to them. A redaction removes raw content, so only
predicates represented by its proof object remain inspectable.
20 Transfer Stability and Limits
CIMT is model-policy-relative. A compiler that reduces impedance for one model-policy may fail for
another.
59

[[page 60]]
Proposition 12(Handle-selection transfer stability).Let 𝑃𝑀
𝑒 and 𝑃𝑀 ′
𝑒 be handle-class selection
errors for model-policies𝑀and𝑀 ′. If for all trusted contexts and intended classes,
⃦⃦⃦𝑝𝑀(̂︀𝐶𝐴|𝐶 𝐴,𝐾)−𝑝 𝑀 ′(̂︀𝐶𝐴|𝐶 𝐴,𝐾)
⃦⃦⃦
𝑇𝑉
≤𝜖 ℎ𝑎𝑛𝑑𝑙𝑒,
then
|𝑃𝑀
𝑒 −𝑃 𝑀 ′
𝑒 |≤𝜖 ℎ𝑎𝑛𝑑𝑙𝑒.
Proof. The error event is an indicator of the selected class. Difference in its expectation is bounded by
total variation.
Criterion 8(System-level transfer bound).A compiler-level transfer claim from model-policy𝑀
to model-policy𝑀′ requires observable bounds not only on handle selection, but also on argument
formation, repair behavior, validator interpretation, context sensitivity, policy compliance, and cost
distribution. A conservative form is
|Δ𝑝𝑀−Δ𝑝𝑀 ′
|≤𝜖 ℎ𝑎𝑛𝑑𝑙𝑒 +𝜖𝑎𝑟𝑔𝑠 +𝜖𝑟𝑒𝑝𝑎𝑖𝑟 +𝜖𝑐𝑡𝑥 +𝜖𝑝𝑜𝑙𝑖𝑐𝑦 +𝜖𝑐𝑜𝑠𝑡.
Without such bounds, only model-specific claims are certified.
21 Operational Complexity and Minimal Abstract Example
Definition 79(Certificate construction and recomputation cost).Let 𝑁 be the number of paired
trials, 𝐶𝑒𝑥𝑒𝑐 the cost of executing one paired trial under the declared infrastructure,𝐽 the number of
certificate events,𝑅 the number of reducer-read fields,𝑉𝑆,𝐸𝑆 the vertices and edges of the abstract
scope graph,𝑅𝑒𝑎𝑐ℎ#
𝐻,𝐸 #
𝐻 the reachable graph recorded by a bounded-horizon scope certificate,𝑚𝐻 the
number of protected dimensions, and𝑉𝑒𝑥𝑝,𝑉𝑝𝑜𝑙,𝑉𝑎𝑢𝑡ℎ the abstract exposure, policy, and authority state
sets used to construct the product graph. A CIMT implementation is operationally finite for a claim
when:
1. reducers read a finite declared field set or a stream with a finite stopping rule;
2. certificate events have finite inputs or anytime-valid update rules;
3. the evidence dependency graph has finite connected components for fixed-sample claims or a
countably budgeted e-process for sequential claims;
4. the scope graph is finite, generated by a declared grammar with conservative widening whose
reachable abstract state space is finite at the promotion horizon, or replaced for a finite-horizon
claim by a complete bounded-horizon scope certificate.
Protocol 2(Evidence dependency graph construction).Construct 𝐺𝐸 before promotion from I/O
manifests and dynamic-monitor receipts. Add a vertex for every reducer, certificate event, target
or reference channel, validator, wrapper, calibrator, holdout, calibration split, model-policy episode,
runtime artifact, archived external response, side-channel source, and receipt-obligation automaton.
Add dependence edges from each artifact to the ledger fields, artifact IDs, source IDs, external snapshots,
model-policy episodes, receipt classes, external calls, emitted target-visible fields, writes, and monitored
side-channel classes in its declared I/O manifest; add monitor-derived edges for actual runtime accesses;
add calibration-dependence edges to calibration source IDs; add reuse edges between events sharing
holdouts, model-policy episodes, external snapshots, repositories, cache shards, side-channel sources, or
60

[[page 61]]
reviewer batches; and add implication edges where one certificate’s conclusion is an input to another.
Connected components sharing any such ancestor must be assigned a joint, blocked, clustered, martingale,
e-process, randomization, or conservative union rule. A strict claim with missing I/O metadata, an
undeclared dynamic access, or an unmonitored side-channel class that can affect the target or protected
boundary is unsupported, not merely incomplete.
Definition 80(Dynamic discovery widening).A dynamic tool-discovery, callback, generated-code, or
fallback source is strict-promotion eligible only when it has a widening soundness certificate𝑊𝑖𝑑𝑒𝐻 for
the promotion horizon. The widening emits an abstract edge set, a coverage receipt, a parser or monitor
totality receipt, and a widening-debt vector𝑈𝑤𝑖𝑑𝑒. If the widening is infinite, unverified, incomplete,
or touches a coordinate matched by a forbidden pattern without a zero certificate, the original strict
durable claim is non-promotable.
Proposition 13(Operational complexity bounds).For a finite fixed-sample claim, trial generation
costs𝑂(𝑁𝐶𝑒𝑥𝑒𝑐), paired certificate recomputation is𝑂(𝑁)after reducer evaluation, evidence-dependency
construction and validation is 𝑂(𝐽 +𝑅 +𝐴 +𝐸𝐺)where 𝐴 is the number of artifact, I/O, or
calibration-source references and𝐸𝐺 is the number of dependency edges, receipt presence checking is
𝑂(𝑅), protected-floor union allocation is𝑂(𝑚𝐻), and full scope-closure reachability is𝑂(|𝑉𝑆| +|𝐸𝑆|).
Constructing the naive product graph has worst-case vertex count|𝑉𝑒𝑥𝑝||𝑉𝑝𝑜𝑙||𝑉𝑎𝑢𝑡ℎ| before reachability
pruning and widening. A finite-horizon claim may instead use a complete bounded-horizon certificate
with simulation-backed reachability cost𝑂(|𝑅𝑒𝑎𝑐ℎ#
𝐻| +|𝐸#
𝐻|). Dynamic discovery contributes the cost
of parsing or monitoring generated transitions plus construction of𝑊𝑖𝑑𝑒𝐻 and the corresponding
widening-debt reducer. If dynamic tool discovery, callbacks, generated code, or fallback menus are not
represented by a finite manifest relation, complete bounded-horizon simulation certificate, inductive
invariant, or widening soundness certificate, strict durable promotion is non-promotable because the
scope-closure premise is unsupported.
Proof. Each bound is the standard scan, join, or graph-reachability cost for the committed finite
object. The product-graph bound is the cardinality of the Cartesian product before pruning. Bounded-
horizon reachability scans only the recorded reachable overapproximation. A dynamic transition source
outside the finite, simulation-certified bounded-horizon, invariant-certified, or widened abstraction can
introduce an unrepresented promoted path, so it is scope debt. Under the strict non-promotability
default, unbounded or unsupported scope debt blocks durable or irreversible promotion.
Protocol 3(Minimal abstract CIMT deployment template).A minimal implementation instance can
be expressed without choosing a domain-specific system:
1. Raw interface.The baseline exposes raw observations, primitive operations, raw validators,
ambient authority, and an append-only ledger.
2. Compiler.The candidate emits typed handles, schemas, observable preconditions, validators,
rollback declarations, authority requirements, staged exposure rules, target binding, and receipt
schemas.
3. Claim.The claim fixes scope, target channel, workload sampler, model-policy envelope, budget,
protected boundary, estimand, promotion profile, and confidence budget before evaluation.
4. Evidence.Paired trials record target outcomes, costs, protected events, receipts, conformance
checks, model-policy canaries, dependency graph edges, and scope graph artifacts.
61

[[page 62]]
5. Decision.The profile artifact reads the paired lower certificate, bounded compensable debt,
protected floors, and forbidden-coordinate zero certificates, then reports one of: profile-admissible
claim, non-promotable original claim, or a separately declared weaker claim requiring new evidence.
This template is intentionally abstract: a RAG system, code-editing agent, robotic workflow, or
document-processing pipeline instantiates the same fields with different target channels and protected
boundaries.
Protocol 4(Code-editing agent instantiation).A code-editing agent instance fills the CIMT template
as follows.
Object Instantiation
Claim Scope is a repository or package subset; the target reducer is committed before
evaluation. A standard strict reducer is a hard-gate AND over full target tests,
lint, and build; optional blinded review is either a separate target component
with a declared aggregation rule or a reference-channel bridge. Workload is a
sampled issue or patch set; protected boundary includes repository write scope,
credential scope, destructive filesystem operations, network policy, and
auditability.
Affordance field Handles include inspect file, edit patch, run selected tests, run full tests, revert
patch, open dependency docs, and quarantine workspace; schemas restrict paths,
command arguments, timeout, and network access. Selected-test execution is a
repair or diagnostic handle and is not target success unless the selection rule is
precommitted, symmetric for both arms, and holdout-independent.
Evidence Paired baseline/candidate trials use the same repository snapshot, issue,
model-policy envelope, dependency lockfile, sandbox image, and target reducer.
Receipts include patch diff, command transcript, selected-test and full-test
output digests, build/lint output, rollback receipt, credential scope, and
filesystem write set.
Debt classification Bounded debt may include flaky-test rate, archived dependency unavailability,
or review-channel disagreement. Forbidden coordinates for strict durable
promotion include credential leakage, writes outside scope, destructive operation
without rollback, target-leakage through test peeking, target-attack or
test-selection-bias debt from candidate-chosen target tests, missing patch receipt,
and unsupported scope graph edges.
Non-promotable
case
If generated scripts can invoke undeclared tools, callbacks, or network endpoints
outside the grammar/widening certificate, strict repository-scope promotion is
non-promotable; a canary claim may be declared only with sandbox monitoring
and rollback.
Miniature certificate.For task𝑖and compiler𝐶, commit before evaluation to
𝑌𝐶
𝑖 =1{𝐹𝑢𝑙𝑙𝑇𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑠 𝐶
𝑖 = 1∧𝐿𝑖𝑛𝑡 𝐶
𝑖 = 1∧𝐵𝑢𝑖𝑙𝑑 𝐶
𝑖 = 1}, 𝐷 𝑖 =𝑌 𝐶1
𝑖 −𝑌 𝐶0
𝑖 .
The target reducer reads only full target-test, lint, and build receipts named in its I/O manifest.
Selected-test receipts may be used by the repair policy but are not read by the target reducer. In a
62

[[page 63]]
fixed-sample certificate, suppose𝑁 = 5000paired repository tasks give ̂︀Δ𝑁 = 0.055and the paired
lower-bound ledger row uses𝛼= 0.005. The Hoeffding radius is
√︁
2 log(200)/5000≤0.0461,
so 𝐿Δ = 0.0089. Suppose the same validity ledger includes upper certificates for flaky full-test replay
debt0 .003, dependency snapshot availability debt0.002, runtime wrapper conformance debt0.001,
and model-policy episode debt0.001, with an overlap rule that treats them conservatively additively.
The compensable scalar debt is0.007, leaving scalar margin0.0019. Exact-zero certificates are design
exclusion for credential reads, deterministic sandbox invariant for writes outside the repository scope,
fail-closed monitor for destructive filesystem actions without rollback, and target-reducer design exclusion
for selected-test receipts. If the promotion profile accepts a positive scalar margin after these debt
terms and the bounded-horizon scope certificate covers generated scripts, the code-editing claim is
profile-admissible for the declared repository scope and horizon.
The minimal profile artifact for this example has𝑡ℎ𝑟𝑒𝑠ℎ𝑜𝑙𝑑 = 0, forbidden patterns for credential
leakage, out-of-scope writes, destructive action without rollback, selected-test target leakage, and
unsupported generated-script scope edges, protected floors for repository boundary and credential scope,
horizon 𝐻 = 1issue-resolution episode, and 𝑉𝑎𝑙𝐵𝑢𝑑.𝑡𝑜𝑡𝑎𝑙_𝑟𝑖𝑠𝑘 = 0.01. Its deterministic reducer
returns𝐴𝑐𝑐𝑒𝑝𝑡P = 1exactly when scalar margin is positive, every protected floor is non-worse, every
forbidden pattern has an admissible zero certificate, and the bounded-horizon scope certificate is complete.
The target reducer’s𝐼𝑂𝑀𝑎𝑛 excludes selected-test receipts from declared reads; if a selected-test receipt
is read by the target reducer, the emitted coordinate is(𝑡𝑎𝑟𝑔𝑒𝑡_𝑎𝑡𝑡𝑎𝑐𝑘,𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡_𝑠𝑒𝑙𝑒𝑐𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛_𝑏𝑖𝑎𝑠,𝑆,𝐻,𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑏 ).
Ledger row Risk spend Evidence/debt effect
𝑒𝑐𝑜𝑑𝑒,𝑝𝑎𝑖𝑟 paired target
lower bound
0.005𝐿 Δ = 0.0089for𝑌=𝐹𝑢𝑙𝑙𝑇𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑠∧𝐿𝑖𝑛𝑡∧𝐵𝑢𝑖𝑙𝑑
𝑒𝑐𝑜𝑑𝑒,𝑓𝑙𝑎𝑘𝑦 flaky-test
replay audit
0.001bounded replay debt0.003
𝑒𝑐𝑜𝑑𝑒,𝑎𝑣𝑎𝑖𝑙 dependency
availability audit
0.001bounded availability debt0.002
𝑒𝑐𝑜𝑑𝑒,𝑤𝑟𝑎𝑝 runtime
wrapper audit
0.001bounded conformance debt0.001
𝑒𝑐𝑜𝑑𝑒,𝑚𝑜𝑑𝑒𝑙
model-policy episode
canary
0.001bounded model-policy debt0.001
𝑒𝑐𝑜𝑑𝑒,𝑧𝑒𝑟𝑜
forbidden-coordinate
zero checks
0deterministic or fail-closed zero certificates
The total statistical risk spend is0.009under 𝑉𝑎𝑙𝐵𝑢𝑑.𝑡𝑜𝑡𝑎𝑙_𝑟𝑖𝑠𝑘 = 0.01; a claim object with𝛼 = 0.01
may therefore report confidence at least0.99for this miniature certificate, with unused budget0.001.
The debt vector contains the four bounded scalar coordinates above, zero-certified forbidden coordinates
for credential access, out-of-scope writes, destructive action, and selected-test target leakage, and
unsupported status for any generated-script edge outside the bounded-horizon scope certificate. For the
displayed numbers, the deterministic replay computes𝐴𝑐𝑐𝑒𝑝𝑡P = 1only when 𝑒𝑐𝑜𝑑𝑒,𝑧𝑒𝑟𝑜 is admissible
and the scope certificate is complete; otherwise it computes non-promotable for the original strict claim.
63

[[page 64]]
If a candidate-chosen selected-test subset is used as target evidence, the selection rule must be fixed
before evaluation, symmetric for𝐶0 and 𝐶1, and independent of holdout outcomes. Otherwise the
structured coordinate
𝜅= (𝑡𝑎𝑟𝑔𝑒𝑡_𝑎𝑡𝑡𝑎𝑐𝑘,𝑡𝑒𝑠𝑡_𝑠𝑒𝑙𝑒𝑐𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛_𝑏𝑖𝑎𝑠,𝑆,𝐻,𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑏)
matches the strict forbidden pattern and the original strict claim is non-promotable unless a separate
target-attack upper certificate is declared.
Protocol 5(Retrieval-augmented generation instantiation).A RAG instance fills the CIMT template
as follows.
Object Instantiation
Claim Scope is a corpus, question family, and answer format; target channel is an
answer checker, citation verifier, or blinded reference-review channel; protected
boundary includes privacy, source leakage, citation integrity, abstention policy,
corpus-to-holdout separation, and auditability.
Affordance field Handles include retrieve, rerank, inspect passage, cite, abstain, request
clarification, and mark source conflict; schemas bind source IDs, quote spans,
retrieval index digest, and citation provenance.
Evidence Paired trials use the same questions, corpus snapshot, retrieval index digest,
decontamination audit, similarity threshold, model-policy envelope, and target
reducer. Receipts include retrieved source IDs, passage hashes, reranker scores,
cited spans, answer text, abstention status, verifier outputs, and overlap-reducer
outputs.
Debt classification Bounded debt may include verifier false-pass rate, corpus drift, citation-span
parser error, or reference-review disagreement. Forbidden coordinates for strict
durable promotion include private-source leakage, citation fabrication without
bounded verifier debt, target holdout contamination, corpus-to-holdout overlap
debt, answer-key or reference leakage, benchmark item leakage, missing source
receipts, and unbounded retrieval-index drift.
Non-promotable
case
If the candidate can adapt retrieval prompts or source filters using unrevealed
target labels, or if corpus-to-holdout overlap cannot be bounded by the
committed overlap reducer, the target-firewall and evidence-graph premises fail;
the original strict claim is non-promotable and only a new target-scoped
experiment can support promotion.
Miniature certificate.For question𝑖and compiler𝐶, commit before evaluation to
𝑌𝐶
𝑖 =1{𝐴𝑛𝑠𝑤𝑒𝑟𝐶ℎ𝑒𝑐𝑘 𝐶
𝑖 = 1∧𝐶𝑖𝑡𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛𝐶ℎ𝑒𝑐𝑘 𝐶
𝑖 = 1∧𝑁𝑜𝑂𝑣𝑒𝑟𝑙𝑎𝑝 𝐶
𝑖 = 1},
where𝑁𝑜𝑂𝑣𝑒𝑟𝑙𝑎𝑝𝐶
𝑖 is computed by an overlap reducer whose𝐼𝑂𝑀𝑎𝑛 reads only the committed corpus
snapshot, retrieval-index digest, holdout commitment, answer-key access-log commitment when available
to the auditor, similarity threshold, and decontamination receipts. In a fixed-sample certificate, suppose
𝑁 = 4000paired questions give ̂︀Δ𝑁 = 0.061and the paired lower-bound ledger row uses𝛼 = 0.005.
The Hoeffding radius is at most0.0515, hence𝐿Δ = 0.0095. Suppose verifier false-pass debt is0.003,
citation-span parser debt is0.002, and corpus snapshot drift debt is0.001, with no overlap among
the debt reducers except conservative addition. The compensable debt is0.006, leaving margin0.0035.
64

[[page 65]]
The strict forbidden leakage coordinates have exact-zero certificates only if the corpus snapshot digest,
retrieval index digest, answer-key access log, and finite holdout/corpus overlap cover prove
𝑇𝑟𝑢𝑛𝑖𝑣
𝐻 (C)∩𝑃𝑟𝑜𝑚 𝐻(𝐶,𝑆;C)∩𝐵𝑎𝑑 𝑐𝑜𝑟𝑝𝑢𝑠_𝑜𝑣𝑒𝑟𝑙𝑎𝑝 =∅,
𝑇𝑟𝑢𝑛𝑖𝑣
𝐻 (C)∩𝑃𝑟𝑜𝑚 𝐻(𝐶,𝑆;C)∩𝐵𝑎𝑑 𝑎𝑛𝑠𝑤𝑒𝑟_𝑘𝑒𝑦_𝑙𝑒𝑎𝑘 =∅.
If these zero certificates and the target-firewall holdout certificate are present, the RAG claim is
profile-admissible for the declared corpus and question family.
The minimal profile artifact for this example has𝑡ℎ𝑟𝑒𝑠ℎ𝑜𝑙𝑑 = 0, forbidden patterns for corpus-
to-holdout overlap, answer-key leakage, benchmark item leakage, private-source leakage, and missing
source receipts, protected floors for privacy and citation integrity, horizon𝐻 = 1answer episode, and
𝑉𝑎𝑙𝐵𝑢𝑑.𝑡𝑜𝑡𝑎𝑙_𝑟𝑖𝑠𝑘 = 0.01. The deterministic reducer returns𝐴𝑐𝑐𝑒𝑝𝑡P = 1exactly when the scalar
margin is positive, the overlap and answer-key zero certificates are admissible, citation integrity floors
are non-worse, and the target-firewall holdout certificate is valid. If the answer-key access log is absent
from the reducer I/O manifest, the answer-key zero proof is unsupported rather than exact zero.
Ledger row Risk spend Evidence/debt effect
𝑒𝑟𝑎𝑔,𝑝𝑎𝑖𝑟 paired target
lower bound
0.005𝐿 Δ = 0.0095for
𝑌=𝐴𝑛𝑠𝑤𝑒𝑟𝐶ℎ𝑒𝑐𝑘∧𝐶𝑖𝑡𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛𝐶ℎ𝑒𝑐𝑘∧𝑁𝑜𝑂𝑣𝑒𝑟𝑙𝑎𝑝
𝑒𝑟𝑎𝑔,𝑣𝑒𝑟𝑖𝑓𝑖𝑒𝑟 verifier
calibration
0.001bounded verifier false-pass debt0.003
𝑒𝑟𝑎𝑔,𝑐𝑖𝑡𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛 citation
parser audit
0.001bounded citation-span debt0.002
𝑒𝑟𝑎𝑔,𝑑𝑟𝑖𝑓𝑡 corpus drift
audit
0.001bounded corpus snapshot drift debt0.001
𝑒𝑟𝑎𝑔,𝑧𝑒𝑟𝑜 overlap and
answer-key zero checks
0deterministic finite-cover or design-exclusion certificates
The total statistical risk spend is0.008under 𝑉𝑎𝑙𝐵𝑢𝑑.𝑡𝑜𝑡𝑎𝑙_𝑟𝑖𝑠𝑘 = 0.01; a claim object with𝛼 = 0.01
may therefore report confidence at least0.99with unused budget0.002. The debt vector contains verifier,
citation-parser, and corpus-drift bounded coordinates, while corpus-to-holdout overlap and answer-key
leakage are forbidden coordinates requiring exact zero. For the displayed numbers, deterministic replay
computes 𝐴𝑐𝑐𝑒𝑝𝑡P = 1only when 𝑒𝑟𝑎𝑔,𝑧𝑒𝑟𝑜 and the target-firewall holdout certificate are admissible.
If corpus-to-holdout overlap, answer-key leakage, or benchmark item leakage is positive, unsupported,
or outside the reducer I/O manifest, then the corresponding structured coordinate matches the strict
target-leakage forbidden pattern and the original durable RAG claim is non-promotable.
22 Failure Modes and Impossibility
CIMT predicts failure or non-certification under: affordance clutter, handle collision, target-channel
circularity, target-firewall failure, holdout leakage, proxy Goodhart, summary loss, replay or availability
incompleteness, ledger omission, runtime nonconformance, rollback illusion, authority leakage, selection
taint, TOCTOU races, distribution shift, validator correlation, unbounded target-channel error,
uncorrected candidate search, unsupported protected-monitor coverage, unsupported scope debt, and
model-specific overfitting.
Theorem 28(No universal target-relevant affordance compiler).For any non-identity compiler𝐶 that
changes a target-relevant observation, action menu, summary, validator, macro-operation, authority
65

[[page 66]]
surface, or target binding, there exists a task distribution𝐷 and a fixed model-policy for which𝐶 does
not improve target-channel capability over the baseline and may strictly reduce it.
Proof. If 𝐶 changes observations or summaries, choose tasks where the transformed information is
target-relevant. If 𝐶 changes action menus, choose a selector confused by the new handles. If𝐶
changes validators, choose targets outside their coverage. If𝐶 creates macro-operations, choose tasks
where unrecorded intermediate state is decisive. If𝐶 changes authority or target binding, choose tasks
whose target success depends on the old boundary.
23 Interoperability with Other Theories
CIMT is intentionally complementary. It should not absorb the roles of governance, value translation,
transfer, metrology, context stability, or growth theories.
Layer Relation to CIMT
Observable governance
interface
CIMT proposes compiler transformations; a governance layer replays,
compares, promotes, rejects, leases, or quarantines them using
observable ledgers and no-meta gates.
Certified Value Translation
Networks
CIMT shapes the operation field before candidate generation;
value-translation networks certify outputs into deployable value after
generation.
Controller-scale workflow
theory
CIMT defines how libraries and workflow operations are exposed as
handles; workflow theory governs long-running library use and
validation budgets.
Search stability under finite
context
CIMT uses context packing; search-stability theory analyzes
preservation, aliasing, compression loss, and reset.
Oversight-centered
metrology / MTE
CIMT treats target channels as instruments; metrology theories
analyze instrument drift, measurement validity, and calibration.
Small-to-frontier transfer CIMT compiler improvements can be transferred only under explicit
transfer certificates.
Autocatalytic capability
theories
CIMT can produce reusable affordance capital; growth theories analyze
accumulation and compounding.
Remark 2(Governance-interface compatibility).CIMT does not depend on any particular governance
implementation. It requires only a governance interface that can read observable ledger records,
deterministic reducer inputs, certificate-event records, protected floors, conformance records, model-
policy envelope records, obligation-extraction records, receipt availability records, and rollback/quarantine
evidence. The formal claim is interface compatibility, not interoperability with an externally specified
system.
24 Design Principles Derived from the Theory
1. Declaretheclaimobjectbeforeevaluation: scope, target, workload, model-policy, budget, protected
boundary, receipt tier, confidence, and debt obligations.
2. Declare the evidence object’s certificate calculus: certificate events, alpha or e-process budgets,
evidence dependency graph, vector debt, profile-specific forbidden coordinate sets, and overlap
policy.
66

[[page 67]]
3. Run paired comparisons only under an observable experiment protocol with committed sampling,
snapshots, randomization, interference controls, and reducers.
4. Use direct paired target-channel certificates as the primary promotion evidence.
5. Make every promotion decision a measurable function of the observable ledger and predeclared
reducers.
6. Firewall target channels from candidate-controlled success declarations.
7. Protect target holdouts with commit-reveal or anytime-valid reuse rules.
8. Check the paired lower certificate, bounded debt, protected floors, and forbidden-coordinate zero
certificates against the promotion profile’s acceptance predicate before making stronger claims.
9. Treat component explanations as ablation-certified diagnostics, not post hoc causes.
10. Extract claim-relevant obligations from manifests, effect descriptors, policies, receipts, exposure
rules, and target bindings before claiming coverage.
11. Scope every promotion and keep quarantined components unreachable from that scope.
12. Expose fewer, better separated handles; avoid flat menus when staged exposure is certifiable.
13. Separate model-facing descriptions from gate-facing authority manifests.
14. Preserve taint labels through context packing.
15. Place validators according to obligation coverage, risk, and propagation cost.
16. Treat rollback as a typed claim with residual-effect bounds.
17. State the claimed receipt tier and require both integrity and availability for future reducer replay.
18. Treat remote model services as fixed only inside a declared model-policy conformance envelope.
19. Report target-channel scope honestly; do not convert a test pass into a truth claim without a
bridge certificate.
25 Discussion
25.1 Why Model Intelligence and System Intelligence Diverge
A model’s unobserved competence is not identical to a system’s target-channel capability. Poorly
surfaced worlds produce unrecorded dependencies, ambiguous handles, delayed validation, irreversible
errors, and context overload. A better compiled world can reduce these obstacles without changing
model weights or the fixed model-policy.
25.2 Why Human-Facing UI Is Not Agent UI
Human-facing interfaces are optimized for human perception, motor control, habits, and institutional
context. This is an ordinary channel-design fact, not an evaluator privilege. LLM-facing interfaces
should be optimized for typed schemas, typed separability, local validation, bounded context, receipt
emission, and authority checks.
67

[[page 68]]
25.3 Why No-Meta Requires Target Humility
A target evaluator is not an absolute evaluator. CIMT can use target channels only as named
measurement instruments with declared scope, target-firewalled inputs, and measurement limits.
Stronger claims require bridge certificates and subtraction of the corresponding debt terms.
25.4 Why CIMT Remains Complementary
CIMT does not decide which compiler should ultimately govern a system, does not certify deployable
value, does not solve finite-context search stability, and does not establish metrological truth. It
supplies the world-side affordance compiler layer. Other theories can govern its adoption, certify its
outputs, analyze its context losses, and study its transfer.
26 Conclusion
CIMT formalizes a specific route to fixed-model capability amplification: compile the world, not the
model. A raw task environment can be transformed into an executable affordance field with typed
handles, staged menus, validators, rollback modes, authority controls, context summaries, receipts, and
target bindings. Such a compiler is useful only for a declared claim object when a direct observable
paired target-channel certificate, after vector debt accounting and forbidden-coordinate zero checks, is
accepted by the declared promotion profile’s acceptance predicate.
The theory is observable-only and no-meta. It does not assume hidden access to ground truth,
a privileged external evaluator, a privileged human evaluator, or an LLM judge. Validators, review
processes, and target evaluators are fallible channels. Promotion is justified only by observable closure
over traces, manifests, integrity- and availability-sufficient receipts, deterministic reducers, predeclared
calibrators, target-firewalled channels, holdout-valid lower certificates, certificate calculus, runtime and
model-policy conformance certificates, protected partial orders, and scope-closed quarantine.
The resulting view is conservative but practical. It explains why RAG, tool use, memory, agent-
computer interfaces, skill libraries, pipeline compilation, and automated workflows can improve
system behavior without improving the model weights or changing the committed model-policy. It
also explains why they fail when they add clutter, proxy validation, authority leakage, irreversible
effects, unbounded summaries, target-channel circularity, or unmeasured distribution shift. Affordance-
compiled intelligence is therefore not a slogan for better prompts. It is a protected compiler discipline
for making fixed model-policies act through worlds they can observe, operate, verify, repair, and audit.
References
[1] P. Lewis, E. Perez, A. Piktus, F. Petroni, V. Karpukhin, N. Goyal, H. Kuttler, M. Lewis, W.-t. Yih,
T. Rocktaschel, S. Riedel, and D. Kiela. Retrieval-augmented generation for knowledge-intensive
NLP tasks.Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2020.https://arxiv.org/abs/
2005.11401
[2] J. Wei, X. Wang, D. Schuurmans, M. Bosma, F. Xia, E. Chi, Q. Le, and D. Zhou. Chain-of-thought
prompting elicits reasoning in large language models.Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems, 2022.https://arxiv.org/abs/2201.11903
[3] S. Yao, J. Zhao, D. Yu, N. Du, I. Shafran, K. Narasimhan, and Y. Cao. ReAct: Synergizing
reasoning and acting in language models.International Conference on Learning Representations,
2023.https://arxiv.org/abs/2210.03629
68

[[page 69]]
[4] T. Schick, J. Dwivedi-Yu, R. Dessì, R. Raileanu, M. Lomeli, E. Hambro, L. Zettlemoyer, N.
Cancedda, and T. Scialom. Toolformer: Language models can teach themselves to use tools.
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2023.https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.04761
[5] N. Shinn, F. Cassano, E. Berman, A. Gopinath, K. Narasimhan, and S. Yao. Reflexion: Language
agents with verbal reinforcement learning.Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
2023.https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.11366
[6] O. Khattab, A. Singhvi, P. Maheshwari, Z. Zhang, K. Santhanam, S. Vardhamanan, S. Haq, A.
Sharma, T. T. Joshi, H. Moazam, H. Miller, M. Zaharia, and C. Potts. DSPy: Compiling declar-
ative language model calls into self-improving pipelines.International Conference on Learning
Representations, 2024.https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.03714
[7] C. Packer, S. Wooders, K. Lin, V. Fang, S. G. Patil, I. Stoica, and J. E. Gonzalez. MemGPT:
Towards LLMs as operating systems. 2023.https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.08560
[8] Q. Wu, G. Bansal, J. Zhang, Y. Wu, B. Li, E. Zhu, L. Jiang, X. Zhang, S. Zhang, J. Liu, A. H.
Awadallah, R. W. White, D. Burger, and C. Wang. AutoGen: Enabling next-gen LLM applications
via multi-agent conversation. 2023.https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.08155
[9] G. Wang, Y. Xie, Y. Jiang, A. Mandlekar, C. Xiao, Y. Zhu, L. Fan, and A. Anandkumar. Voyager:
An open-ended embodied agent with large language models. 2023.https://arxiv.org/abs/
2305.16291
[10] J. Yang, C. E. Jimenez, A. Wettig, K. Lieret, S. Yao, K. Narasimhan, and O. Press. SWE-agent:
Agent-computer interfaces enable automated software engineering.Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems, 2024.https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.15793
[11] Model Context Protocol. Specification snapshot, 2025-11-25.https://modelcontextprotocol.
io/specification/2025-11-25
[12] C. Lu, C. Lu, R. Tjarko Lange, J. Foerster, J. Clune, and D. Ha. The AI Scientist: Towards fully
automated open-ended scientific discovery. 2024.https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.06292
[13] M. Zaharia, O. Khattab, L. Chen, J. Q. Davis, H. Miller, C. Potts, J. Zou, M. Carbin, J. Frankle, N.
Rao, andA.Ghodsi.Theshift frommodels tocompound AIsystems.Berkeley ArtificialIntelligence
Research Blog, 2024.https://bair.berkeley.edu/blog/2024/02/18/compound-ai-systems/
[14] J. J. Gibson.The Ecological Approach to Visual Perception. Houghton Mifflin, 1979.
[15] T. R. G. Green. Cognitive dimensions of notations. In A. Sutcliffe and L. Macaulay, editors,
People and Computers V, pages 443–460, Cambridge University Press, 1989.
[16] A. F. Blackwell and T. R. G. Green. A cognitive dimensions questionnaire optimised for users. In
Proceedings of the 12th Annual Meeting of the Psychology of Programming Interest Group, 2000.
[17] R. S. Sutton, D. Precup, and S. Singh. Between MDPs and semi-MDPs: A framework for temporal
abstraction in reinforcement learning.Artificial Intelligence, 112(1–2):181–211, 1999.
[18] T. G. Dietterich. Hierarchical reinforcement learning with the MAXQ value function decomposition.
Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research, 13:227–303, 2000.
[19] B. Meyer. Applying design by contract.Computer, 25(10):40–51, 1992.
69

[[page 70]]
[20] C. A. R. Hoare. An axiomatic basis for computer programming.Communications of the ACM,
12(10):576–580, 1969.
[21] M. Leucker and C. Schallhart. A brief account of runtime verification.Journal of Logic and
Algebraic Programming, 78(5):293–303, 2009.
[22] L. Gazzola, D. Micucci, and L. Mariani. Automatic software repair: A survey.IEEE Transactions
on Software Engineering, 45(1):34–67, 2019.
[23] P. Cousot and R. Cousot. Abstract interpretation: A unified lattice model for static analysis of
programs by construction or approximation of fixpoints. InConference Record of the Fourth ACM
Symposium on Principles of Programming Languages, pages 238–252, 1977.
[24] E. M. Clarke, O. Grumberg, and D. A. Peled.Model Checking. MIT Press, 1999.
[25] C. J. Clopper and E. S. Pearson. The use of confidence or fiducial limits illustrated in the case of
the binomial.Biometrika, 26(4):404–413, 1934.https://doi.org/10.1093/biomet/26.4.404
[26] W. Hoeffding. Probability inequalities for sums of bounded random variables.Journal of the
American Statistical Association, 58(301):13–30, 1963.https://doi.org/10.1080/01621459.
1963.10500830
[27] K. Azuma. Weighted sums of certain dependent random variables.Tohoku Mathematical Jour-
nal, 19(3):357–367, 1967.https://www.jstage.jst.go.jp/article/tmj1949/19/3/19_3_357/
_article/-char/en
[28] J. Ville.Étude critique de la notion de collectif. Gauthier-Villars, 1939.https://eudml.org/
doc/192893
[29] T. M. Cover and J. A. Thomas.Elements of Information Theory. Wiley, second edition, 2006.
[30] D. A. Norman.The Psychology of Everyday Things. Basic Books, 1988.
[31] S. R. Howard, A. Ramdas, J. McAuliffe, and J. Sekhon. Time-uniform, nonparametric, nonasymp-
totic confidence sequences.Annals of Statistics, 49(2):1055–1080, 2021.https://arxiv.org/abs/
1810.08240
[32] V. Vovk and R. Wang. E-values: Calibration, combination, and applications.Annals of Statistics,
49(3):1736–1754, 2021.https://arxiv.org/abs/1912.06116
[33] A. Ramdas, J. Ruf, M. Larsson, and W. Koolen. Admissible anytime-valid sequential inference
must rely on nonnegative martingales. 2020.https://arxiv.org/abs/2009.03167
[34] S. Ben-David, J. Blitzer, K. Crammer, A. Kulesza, F. Pereira, and J. Wortman Vaughan. A
theory of learning from different domains.Machine Learning, 79:151–175, 2010.https://doi.
org/10.1007/s10994-009-5152-4
[35] A. Gretton, K. M. Borgwardt, M. J. Rasch, B. Schölkopf, and A. Smola. A kernel two-sample
test.Journal of Machine Learning Research, 13:723–773, 2012.https://www.jmlr.org/papers/
v13/gretton12a.html
[36] A. N. Angelopoulos, S. Bates, A. Fisch, L. Lei, and T. Schuster. Conformal risk control. 2022.
https://arxiv.org/abs/2208.02814
70

[[page 71]]
[37] C. Xu, S. Guan, D. Greene, and M.-T. Kechadi. Benchmark data contamination of large language
models: A survey. 2024.https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.04244
[38] C. Deng, Y. Zhao, X. Tang, M. Gerstein, and A. Cohan. Investigating data contamination in
modern benchmarks for large language models.North American Chapter of the Association for
Computational Linguistics, 2024.https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.09783
[39] L. Zheng, W.-L. Chiang, Y. Sheng, S. Zhuang, Z. Wu, Y. Zhuang, Z. Lin, Z. Li, D. Li, E. P. Xing,
H. Zhang, J. E. Gonzalez, and I. Stoica. Judging LLM-as-a-judge with MT-Bench and Chatbot
Arena.Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, Datasets and Benchmarks Track,
2023.https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.05685
[40] R. Stureborg, D. Alikaniotis, and Y. Suhara. Large language models are inconsistent and biased
evaluators. 2024.https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.01724
[41] C. E. Jimenez, J. Yang, A. Wettig, S. Yao, K. Pei, O. Press, and K. Narasimhan. SWE-bench:
Can language models resolve real-world GitHub issues?International Conference on Learning
Representations, 2024.https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.06770
[42] L. Zhang, S. He, C. Zhang, Y. Kang, B. Li, C. Xie, J. Wang, M. Wang, Y. Huang, S. Fu,
E. Nallipogu, Q. Lin, Y. Dang, S. Rajmohan, and D. Zhang. SWE-bench goes live! 2025.
https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.23419
[43] T. Lebo, S. Sahoo, and D. McGuinness, editors. PROV-O: The PROV ontology. W3C Recom-
mendation, 2013.https://www.w3.org/TR/2013/REC-prov-o-20130430/
[44] S. Torres-Arias, H. Afzali, T. K. Kuppusamy, R. Curtmola, and J. Cappos. in-toto: Providing farm-
to-table guarantees for bits and bytes.28th USENIX Security Symposium, pages 1393–1410, 2019.
https://www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity19/presentation/torres-arias
[45] OpenSSF. Supply-chain levels for software artifacts.https://slsa.dev/
[46] National Institute of Standards and Technology. Artificial intelligence risk management framework
(AI RMF 1.0). 2023.https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.AI.100-1
[47] National Institute of Standards and Technology. Artificial Intelligence Risk Management Frame-
work: Generative Artificial Intelligence Profile. NIST AI 600-1, 2024.https://doi.org/10.6028/
NIST.AI.600-1
71