[[page 1]]
2026-8-21
Self-Harness: Harnesses That Improve Themselves
Hangfan Zhang1, Shao Zhang1, Kangcong Li1, Chen Zhang1
Yang Chen1, Yiqun Zhang1, Lei Bai1,†, Shuyue Hu1,†
1Shanghai Artificial Intelligence Laboratory,{zhanghangfan,zhangshao,hushuyue}@pjlab.org.cn
Abstract
The performance of LLM-based agents is jointly shaped by their base models and the harnesses that
mediate their interaction with the environment. Because different models exhibit distinct behaviors,
effective harness design is inherently model-specific. Yet agent harnesses are still largely engineered by
human experts, a paradigm that scales poorly as modern LLMs become increasingly diverse and rapidly
evolving. In this paper, we introduceSelf-Harness, a new paradigm in which an LLM-based agent
improves its own operating harness, without relying on human engineers or stronger external agents.
WeoperationalizeSelf-Harnessasaniterativeloopwiththreestages:WeaknessMining, whichidentifies
model-specific failure patterns from execution traces;Harness Proposal, which generates diverse yet
minimal harness modifications tied to these failures; andProposal Validation, which accepts candidate
edits only after regression testing. We instantiate Self-Harness across Terminal-Bench-2.0, SWE-bench
Verified, and AppWorld using a minimal initial harness and three base models from diverse families:
MiniMax M2.5, Qwen3.5-35B-A3B, and GLM-5. Across all nine model–benchmark combinations,
every final harness improves both held-in and held-out pass rates, with overall relative gains of up to
132%. Qualitative analyses further show that the retained mechanisms address benchmark-specific
bottlenecks in artifact handling and runtime control, software-patch verification, and application-state
retrieval. These results suggest a path toward LLM-based agents that are not merely shaped by their
harnesses, but can also participate in reshaping them.
For a conscious being, to exist is to change, to change is to mature, to mature is to go on
creating oneself endlessly.
—Henri Bergson, Creative Evolution
1. Introduction
To date, LLM-based agents are not shaped by their base model alone, but also by theirharness:
the surrounding system that situates the model and mediates its interaction with the environment.
Although there is no universally accepted definition, a harness may include system prompts, tools,
runtime mechanisms, verification rules, orchestration logic, and failure-recovery procedures. The
same base model can thus exhibit substantially different performance under different harnesses (Lee
et al., 2026; Lin et al., 2026; Yang et al., 2024).
From early frameworks such as ReAct (Yao et al., 2023) to product- and platform-level systems
such as Claude Code, Codex, and OpenHands, harnesses have largely been engineered by human
experts (Liu et al., 2026; OpenAI, 2026; Wang et al., 2025; Zhang et al., 2025c; Zhu et al., 2026).
† Corresponding authors
arXiv:2606.09498v3 [cs.CL] 20 Aug 2026

[[page 2]]
Self-Harness: Harnesses That Improve Themselves
Figure 1| Three paradigms of harness improvement. In human harness engineering, human engineers
manuallyrevisetheagentharness. InMeta-Harness, astrongerexternalagentguidestheimprovement
of a weaker target agent. In Self-Harness, the agent improves its own operating harness.
While effective, this human-centered paradigm does not scale well with the diversity and rapid
evolution of modern LLMs. Different models can exhibit distinct behavioral patterns, tool-use habits,
error modes, and sensitivities to prompting (Qin et al., 2023; Schulhoff et al., 2025; Sclar et al.,
2024); consequently, a harness that works well for one model may be suboptimal for another (Lee
et al., 2026; Lin et al., 2026; Sclar et al., 2024). As new models continue to be released at a rapid
pace, manually redesigning and tuning a model-specific harness for each model becomes increasingly
costly and untenable.
In this paper, we explore a novel paradigm,Self-Harness: enabling an LLM-based agent to improve
the very harness through which it operates (Figure 1). Unlike recent approaches that use stronger
external agents to improve the harnesses of weaker ones (Lee et al., 2026; Lin et al., 2026), Self-
Harness seeks to internalize this improvement loop within the target agent itself. This paradigm
reduces dependence on external guidance that may be costly, unavailable for frontier models, or
mismatched to the target model’s failure modes. More broadly, in Bergson’s terms, this points toward
a technical analogue of self-creation: a system not merely changed from without, but continually
“going on creating itself.”
We operationalize Self-Harness as an improvement loop that repeatedly turns behavioral evidence
into harness updates (Figure 2). The loop consists of three stages.Weakness Mining:Starting
from an initial harness, the agent with a fixed model is run on a set of tasks, producing execution
traces with verifiable outcomes. The agent then clusters failed traces, allowing it to reason about
model-specific failure patterns rather than isolated mistakes.Harness Proposal:Based on these
failure patterns, the agent generates a small set of diverse yet minimal harness modifications, each
tied to a specific failure mechanism. This constraint ensures that proposed edits remain targeted
rather than overly general.Proposal Validation:Candidate modifications are evaluated through
regression tests, and an edit is promoted only if it improves performance without causing measurable
degradation on held-out tasks. If multiple candidate modifications pass the regression tests, they
are merged into the next version of the harness, which then serves as the starting point for the next
iteration.
In our experiments, we instantiate Self-Harness with a minimal initial harness (Figure 3) and
three base models from diverse families: MiniMax M2.5, Qwen3.5-35B-A3B, and GLM-5 (GLM-5
Team, 2026; MiniMax, 2026; Qwen Team, 2026), across Terminal-Bench-2.0, SWE-bench Verified,
and AppWorld. Across the nine model–benchmark combinations, every final harness improves
both held-in and held-out pass rates (Table 1). On Terminal-Bench-2.0, Self-Harness consistently
2

[[page 3]]
Self-Harness: Harnesses That Improve Themselves
improves performance across all three models. For held-in tasks, which provide execution traces
to the evaluation system, the pass rate is increased from 43.0% to 50.0% for MiniMax M2.5, from
15.1% to 36.0% for Qwen3.5-35B-A3B, and from 47.7% to 57.0% for GLM-5. For held-out tasks,
whose execution traces are never used as inputs to the evaluation system, the improvements remain
substantial. The pass rate is increased from 40.5% to 61.9% for MiniMax M2.5, from 23.8% to 38.1%
for Qwen3.5-35B-A3B, and from 42.9% to 57.1% for GLM-5. The same pattern holds on SWE-bench
Verified and AppWorld: every model improves on both splits, with overall Pass gains of 3.5–22.0
and 10.3–40.6 percentage points, respectively. These results indicate that Self-Harness can evolve
an initial harness into model-specific ones better suited to different base models. Moreover, it can
discover broadly useful harness modifications that transfer to tasks whose traces are hidden from the
proposer.
QualitativeanalysesfurthershowthatSelf-Harnessdoesmorethansimplymakethepromptlonger
or add generic instructions. Instead, it introduces targeted changes that reflect the recurring problems
each model encounters during execution, turning model-specific weaknesses into concrete harness-
level interventions. For MiniMax M2.5, the changes encourage the agent to create required output files
earlier, handle structured tool outputs more carefully, and stop unproductive tool-use loops before they
become too long. For Qwen3.5-35B-A3B, the changes focus on checking dependencies in advance,
avoiding repeated failed commands, breaking cycles of endless exploration, and reminding the agent
to produce the required artifacts after tool errors. For GLM-5, the changes mainly help the agent
preserve environment settings across shell commands and move more quickly from exploration to
implementation and testing. Notably, Self-Harness can also introduce broader structural mechanisms,
such as subagent-based decomposition and middleware creation, that go beyond local failure repair
and improve the overall organization of problem solving.
To summarize, our key contributions are as follows:
• We propose Self-Harness, a novel paradigm for harness improvement that enables an LLM-based
agent to design and refine the harness through which it operates, tailoring it to its own base
model without human engineering effort or guidance from a stronger external agent.
• We operationalize Self-Harness as an iterative loop that turns each model’s behavioral evidence
into model-specific harness updates: it evaluates execution traces to identify recurring failure
patterns, generates diverse yet minimal candidate edits, and promotes only those that pass
regression tests.
• Experiments show that Self-Harness improves performance across all nine model–benchmark
combinations, with overall Pass gains of up to 40.6 percentage points and relative improvements
of up to 132%; qualitative analyses further confirm that different models benefit from distinct
harness changes, suggesting that Self-Harness can turn model-specific weaknesses into concrete
harness changes.
2. Background and Related Work
From prompts to agent harnesses.Prompt engineering and context engineering show that fixed
models can be steered by instructions, demonstrations, retrieved evidence, memory, tool state, and
dynamically constructed inputs (Lewis et al., 2020; Liang et al., 2026; Liu et al., 2021; Mei et al.,
2025; Packer et al., 2024; Schulhoff et al., 2025; Wei et al., 2022; Xu et al., 2026). Agentic systems
extend this control surface from a single input to an execution environment: the model acts, observes
consequences, uses tools, receives feedback, and follows runtime policies. ReAct, SWE-agent, Claude
Code, and SemaClaw/OpenClaw illustrate how such surrounding mechanisms shape long-horizon
agent behavior and software-engineering performance (Liu et al., 2026; Yang et al., 2024; Yao et al.,
3

[[page 4]]
Self-Harness: Harnesses That Improve Themselves
2023; Zhu et al., 2026).
We useharnessfor this surrounding system layer: prompts, tools, memory, verification rules,
permission policies, adapters, and runtime mechanisms that mediate between the model and the
environment. Many important agent failures are failures of this layer rather than failures of an isolated
model response: an agent may report success without checking an artifact, retry an unproductive
action pattern, lose the source of truth in a long context, or lack a recovery action. These behaviors
emerge from the interaction between instructions, observations, tools, and runtime control, so
improving them requires changing more than prompt text.
Self-improving agents and automated agent design.A growing line of work studies systems that
adapt their inputs, memories, contexts, or workflows over time (Shinn et al., 2023; Zelikman et al.,
2024; Zhang et al., 2025a, 2026). Reflexion stores verbal feedback for later attempts (Shinn et al.,
2023), agentic context engineering evolves contexts for later model calls (Zhang et al., 2026), and
STOP studies recursive self-improvement for code generation (Zelikman et al., 2024). These methods
show that fixed models can benefit from accumulated feedback, but the adapted object is usually a
response strategy, memory, context, or generated program rather than a declared agent harness state.
A second line optimizes agent designs from outside the evaluated agent. Automated Design of
Agentic Systems searches over agent designs, language agents can be represented as optimizable
graphs, and Meta-Harness directly optimizes harness code using source code, scores, and traces from
prior candidates (Hu et al., 2025; Lee et al., 2026; Zhuge et al., 2024). These systems motivate
harness-level optimization, but they frame improvement as an external search or optimization process
rather than as a bounded edit proposed by the evaluated model under its current harness.
Finally, scientific discovery and self-evolving agent systems such as The AI Scientist, AI Scientist-v2,
AlphaEvolve, Alita, Godel Agent, and Darwin Godel Machine automate broader loops of research,
algorithm design, or capability expansion (Fu et al., 2026; Lu et al., 2024; Novikov et al., 2025; Qiu
et al., 2025; Yamada et al., 2025; Yin et al., 2025; Zhang et al., 2025b). Self-Harness is closest in
spirit to this self-improvement literature and to automated harness optimization, but it studies a
narrower controlled setting: whether the same fixed model, operating under the current harness, can
propose a bounded candidate change to the harness that governs its own future behavior.
3. Self-Harness: An Iterative Loop for Model-Specific Harness Improvement
Human harness engineering improves agent harnesses through expert inspection and manual revision,
while external optimizer approaches treat harness design choices as a searchable space. Self-Harness
studies a middle ground in which a fixed model iteratively improves the harness around itself through
an explicit self-improvement loop driven by execution evidence. In each iteration, the evaluation
system runs the current harness and mines recurring failure patterns from clustered execution traces
to produce structured evidence. Given this evidence, the same model is invoked in a proposer role to
generate a set of diverse yet minimal candidate harness modifications, each targeting a specific failure
mechanism without replacing the overall control architecture. Candidate edits are then validated
through regression testing on held-out tasks, and an explicit acceptance rule promotes only those
edits that improve performance without introducing unacceptable regressions.
3.1. Preliminary
We useharnessto denote the non-parametric scaffolding that governs how a fixed language model
is deployed as an agent. A harness includes the instructions, the available tools, memory and state-
4

[[page 5]]
Self-Harness: Harnesses That Improve Themselves
Weakness Mining
Proceed to N ex t
I terationMissing 
Validation
Corrupted 
Tool
Current Harness 
prompts · tools · memory · policies
Fixed Model 
All Re j ect - N o Update
Selected
Failure Patterns
 as
Proposer
Run 
on tasks
Collected
Execution Traces
Clustered 
Failure Patterns
Failure Patterns 
& I nsig h ts
Harness Proposal
W1: Missing 
Validation Current 
Harness 
Validate 
before Conclude
W2: Unlimited 
Exploration
Loop Breaker
Middleware
W3: Corrupted 
Tool Call
Tool 
Policy Update
Proposed
Harness Edits
Proposed Harness
Candidates
Proposal Validation
Validate 
before Conclude
Accept
Loop Breaker
Middleware
Accept
Tool 
Policy Update
Model
Fixed 
Re j ect Accept - Update Harness
Updated Harness 
prompts · tools · memory · policies
Fixed Model 
Regression
Test
Promotion
D ecision
Figure 2| Overview of one Self-Harness optimization loop. The current harnessℎ𝑡 with fixed model
is evaluated on tasks to collect execution traces, which are clustered into verifier-grounded failure
patterns. The same model is then invoked under the current harness as a proposer, using the mined
failure patterns to generate bounded candidate harness edits. Candidate edits are evaluated by
regression tests on held-in and held-out splits. Accepted candidates are merged to update the harness
toℎ𝑡+1, while rejected candidates are logged without changing the active harness. Throughout the
loop, the model weights and evaluator remain fixed; only the surrounding harness is modified.
management mechanisms, etc. The harness does not modify the model parameters; instead, it
specifies the execution protocol through which the model observes a task, takes actions, invokes tools,
checks intermediate artifacts, and produces a final answer.
Formally, let𝑀 be a fixed language model and letℎ denote an agent harness. Given a task instance
𝑥, running𝑀 under harnessℎ produces an execution trace𝜏 and an output𝑦. The trace records the
messages, tool calls, and verifier outcomes. An evaluator then maps the task, trace, and output to
a behavioral outcome, such as pass/fail. In this work, the model𝑀 and evaluatorE are held fixed,
while the harness is treated as the object of improvement. Self-Harness therefore operates over a
lineage of harnessesℎ0,ℎ 1,... , where each transition corresponds to a bounded edit to the execution
protocol rather than an update to the model weights.
3.2. Weakness Mining: Identifying Failure Patterns from Clustered Execution Traces
ThefirststageofSelf-Harnessconvertsbehavioralfailuresintostructuredevidenceforharnessrevision.
At round𝑡, we run the fixed model𝑀 under the current harnessℎ𝑡 on a held-in split𝐷in. For each
task instance𝑥𝑖∈𝐷 in, the run produces an output𝑦𝑖 and an execution trace𝜏𝑖. The evaluatorE then
5

[[page 6]]
Self-Harness: Harnesses That Improve Themselves
Algorithm 1Self-Harness
Require: fixed model𝑀, initial harnessℎ0, held-in split𝐷in, held-out split𝐷ho, evaluatorE, proposal
width𝐾, rounds𝑇
Ensure:final harnessℎ 𝑇
1:for𝑡=0,1,...,𝑇−1do
2:(𝑃 in(ℎ𝑡),𝑃 ho(ℎ𝑡),𝑅 𝑡)←Evaluate(𝑀,ℎ 𝑡,𝐷 in,𝐷 ho,E)
3:𝐵 𝑡←BuildEvidenceBundle(𝑅 𝑡)⊲from held-in verifier-grounded failures
4:P 𝑡←ParallelPropose(𝑀,ℎ 𝑡,𝐵 𝑡,𝐾)⊲P 𝑡 ={(Δ 𝑗,𝑎 𝑗)}𝐾
𝑗=1
5:A 𝑡←∅
6:for all(Δ 𝑗,𝑎 𝑗)∈P 𝑡 do
7:ℎ (𝑗)
𝑡 ←Δ 𝑗(ℎ𝑡)
8:(𝑃 in(ℎ(𝑗)
𝑡 ),𝑃 ho(ℎ(𝑗)
𝑡 ),𝑅(𝑗)
𝑡 )←Evaluate(𝑀,ℎ (𝑗)
𝑡 ,𝐷 in,𝐷 ho,E)
9:Δ (𝑗)
in ←𝑃 in(ℎ(𝑗)
𝑡 )−𝑃 in(ℎ𝑡)
10:Δ (𝑗)
ho←𝑃 ho(ℎ(𝑗)
𝑡 )−𝑃 ho(ℎ𝑡)
11:ifΔ (𝑗)
in ≥0andΔ (𝑗)
ho≥0andmax(Δ (𝑗)
in ,Δ(𝑗)
ho)>0then
12:A 𝑡←A 𝑡∪{(ℎ (𝑗)
𝑡 ,Δ 𝑗,𝑎 𝑗,Δ(𝑗)
in ,Δ(𝑗)
ho)}
13:Accept(Δ 𝑗)⊲passed acceptance rule
14:else
15:Reject(Δ 𝑗)
16:end if
17:end for
18:ifA 𝑡 =∅then
19:ℎ 𝑡+1←ℎ 𝑡 ⊲no accepted candidate
20:else
21:ℎ 𝑡+1←MergeAccepted(ℎ 𝑡,A 𝑡)⊲accepted edits are merged
22:end if
23:end for
24:returnℎ 𝑇
assigns an outcome𝑧𝑖 =E(𝑥 𝑖,𝜏𝑖,𝑦 𝑖), such as pass or fail. This yields a trace record
𝑟𝑖 =(𝑥 𝑖,𝜏𝑖,𝑦 𝑖,𝑧 𝑖),
and a round-level record set𝑅𝑡 ={𝑟 𝑖}|𝐷 in|
𝑖=1 . Since both𝑀 andE are fixed, changes in these records
across rounds can be attributed to changes in the harness.
A central role of the evaluation system is to avoid treating failures as isolated anecdotes. We
therefore focus on the subset of failed records
𝐹𝑡 ={𝑟 𝑖∈𝑅 𝑡|𝑧 𝑖 =fail}.
and cluster them by verifier-grounded failure signatures. For each failed record𝑟𝑖, the evaluation
system analyzes the trace as evidence for why the evaluator rejected the run. It identifies the terminal
failure reason exposed by the verifier, the agent-side behavior connected to that terminal failure,
and the causal status of that behavior within the trace. This attribution step prevents the clustering
procedure from conflating superficial symptoms with reusable failure mechanisms: two runs may
share the same verifier outcome, such as a timeout or missing artifact, while requiring different
harness changes because the underlying agent behaviors differ.
6

[[page 7]]
Self-Harness: Harnesses That Improve Themselves
We write this attribution as a failure signature
𝜙(𝑟𝑖)=(𝑐 𝑖,𝑞𝑖,𝑚 𝑖),
where 𝑐𝑖 denotes the terminal verifier-level cause,𝑞𝑖 denotes the causal status of the relevant agent
behavior, and𝑚𝑖 denotes the abstract agent mechanism exposed by the trace. Failures are clustered
by exact agreement of this signature:
𝐶𝜙 ={𝑟 𝑖∈𝐹 𝑡|𝜙(𝑟 𝑖)=𝜙}
Thus, the clustering is deterministic and evaluator-grounded: two failed cases are grouped together
only when they agree on what the verifier ultimately rejected, how the agent behavior contributed to
that rejection, and which reusable behavioral mechanism was involved. The goal is not to discover
latent semantic similarity among traces, but to aggregate failures that plausibly admit the same
harness-level intervention.
For each cluster𝐶𝜙, the evaluation system constructs a structured failure pattern containing its
cluster size, representative task instances, shared trace symptoms, verifier evidence, and the inferred
agent mechanism. Clusters are then ordered by their support and estimated actionability, so that the
proposer is exposed first to recurring mechanisms that are more likely to map to a high-value harness
modification.
The output of this stage is an evidence bundle𝐵𝑡 summarizing the dominant failure patterns
observed underℎ𝑡. Importantly,𝐵𝑡 does not prescribe a harness edit. It separates verifier-level failure
from agent-level mechanism, allowing the proposer to target a specific reusable weakness rather
than patching a coarse outcome such as timeout, assertion failure, or missing output. This keeps the
evaluator distinct from the optimizer while ensuring that subsequent candidate modifications are
grounded in explicit cross-case evidence.
3.3. Harness Proposal: Exploring Diverse yet Minimal Candidate Modifications
Given the evidence bundle𝐵𝑡, the proposal stage translates recurring failure patterns into candidate
harness edits. The proposer is not an external optimizer with unrestricted access to the search space.
Instead, we invoke the same fixed model𝑀 with current harnessℎ𝑡 in a proposer role and provide it
with a bounded proposal context: the editable surfaces of the current harness, the verifier-grounded
failure patterns from the evaluation system, records of passing behaviors that should be preserved, and
summaries of previously attempted edits. This context exposes the proposer to structured cross-case
evidence rather than raw execution logs, encouraging it to reason about reusable failure mechanisms
rather than individual task failures.
Self-Harness uses parallel proposal generation to explore several candidate improvements from
the same evidence. The proposer generates𝐾mutually distinct proposal bundles,
P𝑡 ={(Δ 𝑗,𝑎 𝑗)}𝐾
𝑗=1,
where each editΔ𝑗 maps the current harness to a candidate harness
ℎ(𝑗)
𝑡 =Δ 𝑗(ℎ𝑡).
and 𝑎𝑗 is an audit record describing the targeted failure pattern, the edited harness surface, the
expected behavioral effect, and the regression risks. Each proposal must be grounded in a primary
failure mechanism and mapped to a concrete editable surface. The candidates are required to be
materially distinct: they should not merely restate the same cluster, surface, or mechanism with
7

[[page 8]]
Self-Harness: Harnesses That Improve Themselves
different wording. This parallel proposal step broadens exploration while keeping each candidate
branch individually interpretable.
The proposer first selects target failure patterns from𝐵𝑡. A pattern is considered a suitable target
only if it is both supported by evidence and plausibly addressable by an editable harness surface.
This addressability criterion is important because not every failure cluster implies a useful harness
modification: some clusters reflect task-specific difficulty, unstable outcomes, or model capability
limits rather than a missing execution rule. When multiple clusters are plausible, the proposer favors
mechanisms that are concrete, recurrent, and likely to be mitigated by a narrow change to the
execution protocol; weakly supported or non-addressable patterns are excluded rather than forced
into a patch.
Diversity is encouraged across proposal branches, while minimality is enforced within each branch.
A proposal may target a different failure mechanism, choose a different harness surface, or express a
different hypothesis about how to improve execution. However, each individual edit is constrained
to modify only the surface needed to address its selected mechanism, preserve unrelated harness
behavior, and avoid broad rewrites of the agent control architecture.
3.4. Proposal Validation: Ensuring Robust Improvement through Regression Testing
A candidate harness edit is not adopted immediately after it is proposed. Instead, each candidate
branch is treated as a new harness variant and evaluated under the same evaluator used to diagnose
the current harness. For a proposalΔ𝑗, letℎ(𝑗)
𝑡 =Δ 𝑗(ℎ𝑡) denote the resulting candidate harness. We
evaluate both the current harnessℎ𝑡 and the candidate harnessℎ(𝑗)
𝑡 on the held-in split𝐷in and the
held-out split𝐷ho. The held-in split measures whether the proposal addresses the evidence that
motivated it, while the held-out split serves as a regression test for behaviors that were not visible to
the proposer.
Let 𝑃in(ℎ) and 𝑃ho(ℎ) denote the number of passed tasks for harnessℎ on 𝐷in and 𝐷ho, respectively.
We define the split-wise improvements of candidateℎ(𝑗)
𝑡 over the current harness as
Δ(𝑗)
in =𝑃 in(ℎ(𝑗)
𝑡 )−𝑃 in(ℎ𝑡),
and
Δ(𝑗)
ho =𝑃 ho(ℎ(𝑗)
𝑡 )−𝑃 ho(ℎ𝑡).
A candidate is accepted only if it improves at least one split without degrading the other:
Δ(𝑗)
in ≥0,Δ (𝑗)
ho≥0,max

Δ(𝑗)
in ,Δ(𝑗)
ho

>0.
This rule implements a conservative promotion criterion. Proposals that only trade off one split against
the other are rejected, even if their total pass count increases. When evaluation is stochastic, we repeat
candidate evaluation and apply the same rule to aggregate pass counts across repeats. This reduces
the chance that a harness edit is promoted due to a single favorable run. If multiple compatible
candidates satisfy the rule in the same round, their edits are merged into the next harness; rejected
candidates remain logged but do not change the active harness. In addition to the pass-count rule,
validation rejects proposals that do not modify any editable surface or fail execution before a valid
evaluation result is obtained. For each evaluated candidate, the system records the changed surfaces,
split-wise outcomes, evaluation repeats, proposal summary, and accept/reject decision, making each
transition in the harness lineage auditable.
8

[[page 9]]
Self-Harness: Harnesses That Improve Themselves
4. Experiments
We evaluate whether Self-Harness can improve agent performance by modifying only the harness
around a fixed language model across three agentic benchmarks: Terminal-Bench-2.0, SWE-bench
Verified, and AppWorld. Together, they cover terminal interaction in containerized environments,
repository-level software repair, and multi-application workflows. Across three model backends, we
start from a minimal benchmark-specific harness and let Self-Harness propose, validate, and promote
bounded edits using held-in execution evidence and held-out regression gates.
4.1. Setup
Benchmarks.We evaluate Self-Harness on Terminal-Bench-2.0 (Merrill et al., 2026), SWE-bench
Verified (Jimenez et al., 2024), and AppWorld (Trivedi et al., 2024). Terminal-Bench-2.0 contains 89
containerized terminal tasks that test general tool-based execution, including artifact management,
commanduse,verificationbehavior,andrecoveryfromexecutionerrors. Weevaluateonafixed64-case
subset, excluding tasks that depend on unstable external web resources or require multimodal inputs.
This filtering reduces evaluation noise from factors outside the harness. In particular, multimodal
tasks require modality-specific input handling that is not exposed by our minimal initial harness;
including them would primarily measure unsupported harness functionality rather than the effect
of Self-Harness edits. SWE-bench Verified evaluates repository-level software repair: an agent must
inspect a real codebase, implement a patch for a reported issue, and satisfy repository tests in the
benchmark-provided per-instance execution environment. We use a fixed 100-case subset partitioned
into 67 held-in and 33 held-out cases. Cases are sampled proportionally by repository. AppWorld
evaluates multi-application workflows in which an agent interacts with application APIs and is graded
by state-based unit tests. We use 180 examples divided evenly between held-in and held-out splits.
The held-in split contains the official training tasks, while the held-out split is fixed by proportionally
sampling from the official normal and challenge test partitions.
Models.We evaluate Self-Harness with three models: MiniMax M2.5 (MiniMax, 2026), Qwen3.5-
35B-A3B (Qwen Team, 2026), and GLM-5 (GLM-5 Team, 2026). The model is held fixed across all
harness variants and is also used in the proposal stage to generate edits from evaluator feedback. All
comparisons are therefore within-model comparisons: the decoding configuration, budget, tool set,
benchmark environment, and evaluator are kept unchanged while only the harness is allowed to vary.
This isolates the effect of Self-Harness from changes in model capability or evaluation protocol.
Harness.The initial harness builds upon the DeepAgent (LangChain, 2026) SDK but is intentionally
kept minimal: a short benchmark-facing system prompt, and the default filesystem and shell tools.
Self-Harness can only change the harness definition file that configures how DeepAgent is instantiated
and controlled to build a new harness candidateℎ(𝑗)
𝑡 . The editable surfaces correspond to declared
configuration points in this harness, such as instruction, tools, verification guidance, etc. Figure 3
shows the initial harness implementation.
Splits and protocol.We fix the evaluated task set and partition it into a held-in split and a held-out
split before running Self-Harness. The held-in split supplies the trajectories, verifier outcomes, and
failure evidence exposed to the proposer, while the held-out split is never shown to the proposer and
is used only by the automatic promotion gate. A candidate harness is promoted with the acceptance
rule defined in Section 3.4. Task split assignments are fixed across harness variants, and each task
9

[[page 10]]
Self-Harness: Harnesses That Improve Themselves
1defbuild_system_prompt() ->str:
2return"""
3You are running inside a Terminal Bench 2 Harbor task environment.
4
5Use the built-in filesystem and shell tools to inspect the workspace, make
6concrete edits, and verify outcomes against the actual task environment.
7
8Do not assume synthetic datasets, domain-specific tools, or hidden fixtures
9unless you discover them in the repo or runtime.
10""".strip()
11
12
13BASELINE_SYSTEM_PROMPT = build_system_prompt()
14
15
16defbuild_memory_sources() ->list[str]:
17return["/AGENTS.md"]
18
19
20defbuild_subagents() ->list[dict[str, Any]]:
21return[]
22
23
24defbuild_skills() ->list[str]:
25return[]
26
27
28defbuild_bootstrap_instruction() ->str:
29return"Start by inspecting the workspace and identifying the smallest relevant edit surface."
30
31
32defbuild_execution_instruction() ->str:
33return"Prefer concrete repo changes over generic advice, and keep edits tightly scoped to the
task."
34
35
36defbuild_verification_instruction() ->str:
37return"Before concluding, verify the result with the most targeted command, file read, or test
you can run."
38
39
40defbuild_failure_recovery_instruction() ->str:
41return"If a tool call fails, inspect the error and adapt; do not blindly retry the same action."
42
43
44defbuild_runtime_control_policy() ->dict[str, Any]:
45return{
46"enabled": False,
47"max_recent_tool_errors": None,
48"max_total_tool_messages": None,
49"instruction": None,
50}
51
52
53defbuild_fixed_harness_agent(
54model: "BaseChatModel | str",
55*,
56backend: Any | None = None,
57):
58ifbackendis notNone:
59returncreate_deep_agent(model=model, system_prompt=BASELINE_SYSTEM_PROMPT, backend=backend)
60returncreate_deep_agent(model=model, system_prompt=BASELINE_SYSTEM_PROMPT)
Figure 3| Initial harness and editable interface used as the starting point for Self-Harness. The harness
is intentionally kept minimal, consisting only of the Terminal-Bench-2.0 default system prompt, the
default DeepAgent tools (basic file reading, file writing, file editing, and shell execution), and the
declared interfaces that Self-Harness is allowed to modify.
10

[[page 11]]
Self-Harness: Harnesses That Improve Themselves
Model Initial harness Self-Harness
Held-in Held-out Overall Held-in Held-out Overall
Terminal-Bench-2.0
MiniMax M2.5 43.0 40.5 42.250.0(+16%)61.9(+53%) 53.9(+28%)
Qwen3.5-35B-A3B 15.1 23.8 18.036.0(+138%)38.1(+60%) 36.7(+104%)
GLM-5 47.7 42.9 46.157.0(+20%)57.1(+33%) 57.0(+24%)
SWE-bench Verified
MiniMax M2.5 51.5 34.8 46.058.2(+13%)40.9(+18%) 52.5(+14%)
Qwen3.5-35B-A3B 20.1 18.2 19.542.5(+111%)39.4(+116%) 41.5(+113%)
GLM-5 53.7 48.5 52.058.2(+8%)50.0(+3%) 55.5(+7%)
AppWorld
MiniMax M2.5 51.7 45.6 48.662.8(+21%)55.0(+21%) 58.9(+21%)
Qwen3.5-35B-A3B 25.0 20.0 22.560.0(+140%)44.4(+122%) 52.2(+132%)
GLM-5 47.8 41.1 44.492.2(+93%)77.8(+89%) 85.0(+91%)
Table 1| Held-in, held-out, and overall pass rates (%) for the initial and final harnesses. Bold black
values denote the final harness produced by Self-Harness.
starts from a fresh benchmark environment. These controls ensure that measured improvements
come from harness changes.
Metrics.Our primary metric isPass (%), the percentage of evaluated task attempts that pass the
corresponding benchmark’s official verifier, computed over two repeated attempts for each harness
candidate unless otherwise specified. This measures mean single-attempt task success under a fixed
harness configuration and evaluation protocol.
4.2. Main Results
Table 1 shows that every final harness improves Pass on both held-in and held-out splits across all
nine model–benchmark combinations. The largest relative gain is 132% for Qwen3.5-35B-A3B on
AppWorld, while the largest absolute gain is 40.6 percentage points for GLM-5 on AppWorld, from
44.4% to 85.0%. Meanwhile, the relative held-out gain exceeds the held-in gain in four combinations:
MiniMax M2.5 and GLM-5 on Terminal-Bench-2.0, and MiniMax M2.5 and Qwen3.5-35B-A3B on
SWE-bench Verified.
These results show that harness-level edits can yield measurable improvements while keeping the
model backend, tool set, budget, benchmark environment, and evaluator fixed. The gains are not
confined to the held-in failures used to construct proposal evidence: all three backends improve on the
held-out split, and no promoted harness degrades either split. This supports the central design goal of
Self-Harness: proposed edits should target reusable execution mechanisms rather than case-specific
failures, and the regression gate should prevent improvements on one split from being promoted at
the cost of another.
4.3. Experimental Analysis
Harness evolution and retained edits.Figure 4 presents four representative evolution trajectories
spanning all three benchmarks, while Figures 5 and 6 show the retained code-level edits for the two
Terminal-Bench-2.0 examples. On Terminal-Bench-2.0, the retained edits primarily target artifact
handling, failure recovery, and runtime control; on SWE-bench Verified, they target patch validation
11

[[page 12]]
Self-Harness: Harnesses That Improve Themselves
accepted rejected branch endpoint
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20
Candidate evaluations
20
24
28
32
36Pass (%)
18.0
31.3
21.1 24.2
34.4 32.8
36.7
Initial harness
Late deliverables
> artifact-ensure subagent
Skipped imports
> dependency-verifier skill
Missing modules
> precheck imports
Exploration loops
> force a change
Missing files
> create within 2 steps
Tool errors
> middleware guard
(a) Qwen3.5-35B-A3B on Terminal-Bench-2.0.
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15
Candidate evaluations
42
46
50
54Pass (%)
42.2
49.250.0
51.6
53.9
Initial harness
Missing artifacts
> create output early
Stalled tool loops
> redirect after 50 tool calls
Schema-invalid content
> use correct content tags
Combined harness
artifacts + schemas + loops (b) MiniMax M2.5 on Terminal-Bench-2.0.
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
Candidate evaluations
44
46
48
50
52
54
56Pass (%)
46.0
50.0 51.0
52.5
Initial harness
Empty patches
> diff detector
Stricter test policy
> local-test enforcement
Untested patch
> local verification
(c) MiniMax M2.5 on SWE-bench Verified.
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13
Candidate evaluations
40
50
60
70
80
90Pass (%)
44.4
76.4
67.2
74.7
85.0
Initial harness
Action-only tasks
> null completion
Turn-budget exhaustion
> progress-check reminder
Partial record lists
> pagination exhaustion
Merged retained
> completion + pagination (d) GLM-5 on AppWorld.
Figure 4| Representative Self-Harness evolution trajectories across model backends and benchmarks.
Green markers denote accepted harness candidates, gray crosses denote rejected candidates, and red
crosses mark explored branch endpoints. Step lines connect candidates to their parent harness; the
x-axis follows candidate-evaluation order.
and executable verification; and on AppWorld, complete state retrieval and correct completion
semantics. The concrete implementation of these mechanisms remains model-specific. Across these
runs, proposed edits passing validation are denoted as green nodes. Red nodes and grey slots denote
rejected branches and failing trials, respectively. The corresponding GLM-5 Terminal-Bench-2.0 run is
introduced in Appendix Figure 10, and Sections B.2 and B.3 report the remaining SWE-bench Verified
and AppWorld evolution, code-level, and trace analyses.
For MiniMax M2.5, the harness improves from 42.2% to 53.9% pass rate. The retained edits in
Figure 5 address missing required artifacts, schema-invalid tool content, and stalled tool-use loops,
yielding a harness that creates required outputs earlier, handles structured tool content more carefully,
and redirects execution after prolonged tool interaction.
The Qwen3.5 evolution run shown in Figure 4(a) starts at 18.0% pass rate and reaches 36.7% after
merging the edits shown in Figure 6, which emphasize artifact checking, missing-artifact recovery,
retry discipline, and tool-error-triggered middleware. These changes mainly improve the agent’s
ability to recover from file-editing or tool failures and still leave verifier-required artifacts in place.
For GLM-5, the harness improves from 46.1% to 57.0% through edits targeting late artifacts,
external computation, session-scoped tools, and implementation-oriented exploration. These edits
make environment changes persist across shell commands and encourage the agent to move from
prolonged exploration toward implementation and testing.
12

[[page 13]]
Self-Harness: Harnesses That Improve Themselves
Figure5| Code-leveldifferencesforthethreeMiniMaxM2.5Terminal-Bench-2.0harnessmodifications
retained in the final promoted harness. Red rows denote code removed from the initial harness, and
green rows denote the updated harness behavior.
Trace-Level Analysis of Accepted Edits.To examine how accepted harness edits affect agent
behavior, we compare representative traces before and after harness modification. Figures 7 and 8
show Terminal-Bench-2.0 examples for MiniMax M2.5 and Qwen3.5-35B-A3B, with the GLM-5
example shown in Appendix Figure 9. Sections B.2 and B.3 provide corresponding SWE-bench
Verified and AppWorld cases. Across benchmarks, the retained edits are model- and task-environment-
specific and align with the dominant failure mechanisms observed under each initial harness.
For MiniMax M2.5, the accepted edits emphasize early artifact creation and bounded execution.
The bootstrap instruction is changed from merely identifying the smallest relevant edit surface to
identifying the required output artifact and creating an initial version as early as possible. The runtime
policy is also enabled with a limit on total tool messages, encouraging the agent to redirect rather than
continue open-ended tool use. Figure 7 shows that this changes the agent from prolonged dataset
exploration to a concrete workflow: identifying the relevant metadata split, computing the required
count, writing the answer file, and reading it back before stopping.
For Qwen3.5, the promoted harness adds constraints for dependency prechecking, loop breaking,
command-retry discipline, and artifact-focused recovery after tool errors. Figure 8 illustrates how
these edits change failure recovery behavior. Under the initial harness, the agent creates the required
extractor script, encounters overwrite and edit failures, repeatedly tries to modify the same artifact,
and ultimately deletes/app/extract.js before stopping; the verifier therefore fails because the
required file is missing. Under the edited harness, a tool-error-triggered system prompt redirects the
agent toward the missing artifact: it recreates the extractor, fixes the parsing logic, writes the output
file, performs targeted validation of the JSON result, and leaves the required artifact present for the
verifier.
For GLM-5, the accepted edits focus on persistent environment changes and the transition from
exploration to implementation. The edited harness instructs the agent to make installed tools or path
changes persist across shell sessions and to verify tool accessibility after modifying the environment.
13

[[page 14]]
Self-Harness: Harnesses That Improve Themselves
Figure 6| Code-level differences for the four Qwen3.5-35B-A3B Terminal-Bench-2.0 harness modifica-
tions retained in the final promoted harness. Red rows denote code removed from the initial harness,
and green rows denote the updated harness behavior.
It also adds a verification-stage constraint: if the agent has been exploring without producing required
artifacts, it should transition to implementing and testing a solution. Figure 9 shows this behavior
in a build task. The initial harness spends substantial budget on long external downloads and later
rationalizes failed sanity checks, whereas the edited harness switches strategy after timeout evidence,
validates alternative sources early, repairs the failing render check, and only then finalizes.
Togetherwiththecross-benchmarkcasesinSectionsB.2andB.3,theseexamplesillustrateconcrete
workflow changes associated with the quantitative gains in Table 1, including earlier artifact creation,
recovery from failed actions, complete state retrieval, and explicit verification before completion.
The trace evidence is consistent with the intended mechanism of Self-Harness: recurring execution
failures are translated into targeted changes to agent workflow.
5. Conclusion
This paper studied whether a fixed language model can improve the harness that governs its own agent
behavior. We introduced Self-Harness, a propose–evaluate–accept framework in which the model
is evaluated under the current harness, receives structured evidence from its own execution traces,
and proposes bounded edits to declared harness surfaces. Candidate harnesses are then re-evaluated
under the same benchmark protocol, and only edits that satisfy a non-regressive acceptance rule are
promoted into the harness lineage.
The main lesson is that harness improvement should be treated as an empirical state transition. A
14

[[page 15]]
Self-Harness: Harnesses That Improve Themselves
Figure 7| Representative MiniMax M2.5 traces on the Terminal-Bench-2.0count-dataset-tokens
task. Left: the initial harness ends without the required answer artifact. Right: the edited harness
produces and verifies/app/answer.txt.
useful harness edit must specify the behavior it aims to change, the surface it modifies, the evidence
that motivates it, and the evaluation result that justifies promotion. By keeping the model, evaluator,
and benchmark protocol fixed, Self-Harness isolates whether improved behavior comes from changes
to the harness scaffold.
Our experiments across Terminal-Bench-2.0, SWE-bench Verified, and AppWorld instantiate this
protocol with a minimal DeepAgent-based baseline harness and three model backends. Self-Harness
improves Pass (%) across all nine model–benchmark combinations while preserving held-in and
held-out performance under the acceptance rule. The retained edits are small, auditable changes
to configurable harness surfaces that address distinct bottlenecks in artifact handling and runtime
control, software-patch verification, and application-state retrieval, suggesting that even sparse initial
harnesses can support useful self-improvement when proposals are constrained by execution evidence
and validated by regression testing.
Self-Harness also has important limits. It studies bounded harness edits under fixed benchmarks,
not open-ended self-improvement. Accepted edits may still reflect benchmark-specific failure patterns,
and the protocol depends on the quality of verifier outcomes and trace records. Higher-stakes harness
changes would require stronger acceptance gates than pass-rate non-regression alone.
More broadly, Self-Harness points toward a style of agent engineering in which harnesses evolve
through recorded, testable, and reversible changes. Future work can further explore application of
self-harness-style self-improvement in broader environments, but the core requirement remains the
same: self-improvement should be grounded in behavioral evidence rather than only in the proposer’s
rationale for a plausible edit.
References
Lingyue Fu, Xin Ding, Linyue Pan, Yaoming Zhu, Shao Zhang, Lin Qiu, Weiwen Liu, Weinan Zhang,
Xuezhi Cao, Xunliang Cai, Jiaxin Ding, and Yong Yu. Catarena: Evaluation of llm agents through
iterative tournament competitions. InInternational Conference on Machine Learning. PMLR, 2026.
15

[[page 16]]
Self-Harness: Harnesses That Improve Themselves
GLM-5 Team. Glm-5: from vibe coding to agentic engineering, 2026. URLhttps://arxiv.org/
abs/2602.15763.
Shengran Hu, Cong Lu, and Jeff Clune. Automated design of agentic systems, 2025. URLhttps:
//arxiv.org/abs/2408.08435.
Carlos E. Jimenez, John Yang, Alexander Wettig, Shunyu Yao, Kexin Pei, Ofir Press, and Karthik
Narasimhan. Swe-bench: Can language models resolve real-world github issues?, 2024. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.06770.
LangChain. Deepagents, 2026. URLhttps://github.com/langchain-ai/deepagents. Soft-
ware framework.
Yoonho Lee, Roshen Nair, Qizheng Zhang, Kangwook Lee, Omar Khattab, and Chelsea Finn. Meta-
harness: End-to-end optimization of model harnesses, 2026. URLhttps://arxiv.org/abs/
2603.28052.
Patrick Lewis, Ethan Perez, Aleksandra Piktus, Fabio Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin, Naman Goyal,
Heinrich Kuttler, Mike Lewis, Wen-tau Yih, Tim Rocktaschel, Sebastian Riedel, and Douwe Kiela.
Retrieval-augmentedgenerationforknowledge-intensivenlptasks. InAdvancesinNeuralInformation
Processing Systems, 2020. URLhttps://arxiv.org/abs/2005.11401.
Yongyuan Liang, Shijie Zhou, Yu Gu, Hao Tan, Gang Wu, Franck Dernoncourt, Jihyung Kil, Ryan A
Rossi, and Ruiyi Zhang. Anticipatory planning for multimodal ai agents. InProceedings of the
IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 5925–5935, 2026.
Jiahang Lin, Shichun Liu, Chengjun Pan, Lizhi Lin, Shihan Dou, Zhiheng Xi, Xuanjing Huang, Hang
Yan, Zhenhua Han, Tao Gui, and Yu-Gang Jiang. Agentic harness engineering: Observability-driven
automatic evolution of coding-agent harnesses, 2026. URLhttps://arxiv.org/abs/2604.
25850.
Jiacheng Liu, Xiaohan Zhao, Xinyi Shang, and Zhiqiang Shen. Dive into claude code: The design space
of today’s and future ai agent systems, 2026. URLhttps://arxiv.org/abs/2604.14228.
Pengfei Liu, Weizhe Yuan, Jinlan Fu, Zhengbao Jiang, Hiroaki Hayashi, and Graham Neubig. Pre-train,
prompt, and predict: A systematic survey of prompting methods in natural language processing,
2021. URLhttps://arxiv.org/abs/2107.13586.
Chris Lu, Cong Lu, Robert Tjarko Lange, Jakob Foerster, Jeff Clune, and David Ha. The ai scientist:
Towards fully automated open-ended scientific discovery, 2024. URLhttps://arxiv.org/abs/
2408.06292.
Lingrui Mei, Jiayu Yao, Yuyao Ge, Yiwei Wang, Baolong Bi, Yujun Cai, Jiazhi Liu, Mingyu Li, Zhong-Zhi
Li, Duzhen Zhang, Chenlin Zhou, Jiayi Mao, Tianze Xia, Jiafeng Guo, and Shenghua Liu. A survey
of context engineering for large language models, 2025. URLhttps://arxiv.org/abs/2507.
13334.
Mike A. Merrill, Alexander G. Shaw, Nicholas Carlini, Boxuan Li, Harsh Raj, Ivan Bercovich, Lin Shi,
Jeong Yeon Shin, Thomas Walshe, E. Kelly Buchanan, Junhong Shen, Guanghao Ye, Haowei Lin,
JasonPoulos,MaoyuWang,MariannaNezhurina,JeniaJitsev,DiLu,OrfeasMenisMastromichalakis,
Zhiwei Xu, Zizhao Chen, Yue Liu, Robert Zhang, Leon Liangyu Chen, Anurag Kashyap, Jan-Lucas
Uslu, Jeffrey Li, Jianbo Wu, Minghao Yan, Song Bian, Vedang Sharma, Ke Sun, Steven Dillmann,
Akshay Anand, Andrew Lanpouthakoun, Bardia Koopah, Changran Hu, Etash Guha, Gabriel H. S.
Dreiman, Jiacheng Zhu, Karl Krauth, Li Zhong, Niklas Muennighoff, Robert Amanfu, Shangyin Tan,
16

[[page 17]]
Self-Harness: Harnesses That Improve Themselves
Shreyas Pimpalgaonkar, Tushar Aggarwal, Xiangning Lin, Xin Lan, Xuandong Zhao, Yiqing Liang,
Yuanli Wang, Zilong Wang, Changzhi Zhou, David Heineman, Hange Liu, Harsh Trivedi, John
Yang, Junhong Lin, Manish Shetty, Michael Yang, Nabil Omi, Negin Raoof, Shanda Li, Terry Yue
Zhuo, Wuwei Lin, Yiwei Dai, Yuxin Wang, Wenhao Chai, Shang Zhou, Dariush Wahdany, Ziyu She,
Jiaming Hu, Zhikang Dong, Yuxuan Zhu, Sasha Cui, Ahson Saiyed, Arinbjörn Kolbeinsson, Jesse
Hu, Christopher Michael Rytting, Ryan Marten, Yixin Wang, Alex Dimakis, Andy Konwinski, and
Ludwig Schmidt. Terminal-bench: Benchmarking agents on hard, realistic tasks in command line
interfaces, 2026. URLhttps://arxiv.org/abs/2601.11868.
MiniMax. Minimax m2.5: Built for real-world productivity, February 2026. URLhttps://www.
minimax.io/news/minimax-m25. Official model report.
Alexander Novikov, Ngan Vu, Marvin Eisenberger, Emilien Dupont, Po-Sen Huang, Adam Zsolt Wagner,
Sergey Shirobokov, Borislav Kozlovskii, Francisco J. R. Ruiz, Abbas Mehrabian, M. Pawan Kumar,
Abigail See, Swarat Chaudhuri, George Holland, Alex Davies, Sebastian Nowozin, Pushmeet Kohli,
and Matej Balog. Alphaevolve: A coding agent for scientific and algorithmic discovery, 2025. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.13131.
OpenAI. Codex, 2026. URLhttps://openai.com/codex/. Product page.
Charles Packer, Sarah Wooders, Kevin Lin, Vivian Fang, Shishir G. Patil, Ion Stoica, and Joseph E.
Gonzalez. Memgpt: Towards llms as operating systems, 2024. URLhttps://arxiv.org/abs/
2310.08560.
Yujia Qin, Shihao Liang, Yining Ye, Kunlun Zhu, Lan Yan, Yaxi Lu, Yankai Lin, Xin Cong, Xiangru
Tang, Bill Qian, Sihan Zhao, Runchu Tian, Ruobing Xie, Jie Zhou, Mark Gerstein, Dahai Li, Zhiyuan
Liu, and Maosong Sun. Toolllm: Facilitating large language models to master 16000+ real-world
apis, 2023. URLhttps://arxiv.org/abs/2307.16789.
Jiahao Qiu, Xuan Qi, Tongcheng Zhang, Xinzhe Juan, Jiacheng Guo, Yifu Lu, Yimin Wang, Zixin Yao,
Qihan Ren, Xun Jiang, Xing Zhou, Dongrui Liu, Ling Yang, Yue Wu, Kaixuan Huang, Shilong Liu,
Hongru Wang, and Mengdi Wang. Alita: Generalist agent enabling scalable agentic reasoning with
minimal predefinition and maximal self-evolution, 2025. URLhttps://arxiv.org/abs/2505.
20286.
Qwen Team. Qwen3.5: Towards native multimodal agents, February 2026. URLhttps://qwen.
ai/blog?id=qwen3.5. Official model report and model card for Qwen3.5-35B-A3B.
Sander Schulhoff, Michael Ilie, Nishant Balepur, Konstantine Kahadze, Amanda Liu, Chenglei Si,
Yinheng Li, Aayush Gupta, HyoJung Han, Sevien Schulhoff, Pranav Sandeep Dulepet, Saurav
Vidyadhara, Dayeon Ki, Sweta Agrawal, Chau Pham, Gerson Kroiz, Feileen Li, Hudson Tao, Ashay
Srivastava, Hevander Da Costa, Saloni Gupta, Megan L. Rogers, Inna Goncearenco, Giuseppe Sarli,
Igor Galynker, Denis Peskoff, Marine Carpuat, Jules White, Shyamal Anadkat, Alexander Hoyle,
and Philip Resnik. The prompt report: A systematic survey of prompt engineering techniques, 2025.
URLhttps://arxiv.org/abs/2406.06608.
Melanie Sclar, Yejin Choi, Yulia Tsvetkov, and Alane Suhr. Quantifying language models’ sensitivity
to spurious features in prompt design or: How i learned to start worrying about prompt formatting,
2024. URLhttps://arxiv.org/abs/2310.11324.
Noah Shinn, Federico Cassano, Edward Berman, Ashwin Gopinath, Karthik Narasimhan, and Shunyu
Yao. Reflexion: Language agents with verbal reinforcement learning, 2023. URLhttps://arxiv.
org/abs/2303.11366.
17

[[page 18]]
Self-Harness: Harnesses That Improve Themselves
Harsh Trivedi, Tushar Khot, Mareike Hartmann, Ruskin Manku, Bhuwan Dhingra, and Ashish Sab-
harwal. AppWorld: A controllable world of apps and people for benchmarking interactive coding
agents. InProceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics
(Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 16022–16076. Association for Computational Linguistics, 2024.
Xingyao Wang, Boxuan Li, Yufan Song, Frank F Xu, Xiangru Tang, Mingchen Zhuge, Jiayi Pan, Yueqi
Song, Bowen Li, Jaskirat Singh, et al. Openhands: An open platform for ai software developers
as generalist agents. InInternational Conference on Learning Representations, volume 2025, pages
65882–65919, 2025.
JasonWei, XuezhiWang, DaleSchuurmans, MaartenBosma, BrianIchter, FeiXia, EdChi, QuocLe, and
Denny Zhou. Chain-of-thought prompting elicits reasoning in large language models. InAdvances
in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2022. URLhttps://arxiv.org/abs/2201.11903.
Siyuan Xu, Shiyang Li, Xin Liu, Tianyi Liu, Yixiao Li, Zhan Shi, Zixuan Zhang, Zilong Wang, Qingyu
Yin, JianshuChen, etal. Controllable andverifiable tool-usedatasynthesisforagentic reinforcement
learning.arXiv preprint arXiv:2604.09813, 2026.
Yutaro Yamada, Robert Tjarko Lange, Cong Lu, Shengran Hu, Chris Lu, Jakob Foerster, Jeff Clune,
and David Ha. The ai scientist-v2: Workshop-level automated scientific discovery via agentic tree
search, 2025. URLhttps://arxiv.org/abs/2504.08066.
John Yang, Carlos E. Jimenez, Alexander Wettig, Kilian Lieret, Shunyu Yao, Karthik Narasimhan, and
Ofir Press. Swe-agent: Agent-computer interfaces enable automated software engineering, 2024.
URLhttps://arxiv.org/abs/2405.15793.
Shunyu Yao, Jeffrey Zhao, Dian Yu, Nan Du, Izhak Shafran, Karthik Narasimhan, and Yuan Cao.
React: Synergizing reasoning and acting in language models, 2023. URLhttps://arxiv.org/
abs/2210.03629.
Xunjian Yin, Xinyi Wang, Liangming Pan, Li Lin, Xiaojun Wan, and William Yang Wang. Gödel agent:
A self-referential agent framework for recursively self-improvement. InProceedings of the 63rd
Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages
27890–27913, 2025. doi: 10.18653/v1/2025.acl-long.1354. URL https://aclanthology.
org/2025.acl-long.1354/.
Eric Zelikman, Eliana Lorch, Lester Mackey, and Adam Tauman Kalai. Self-taught optimizer (stop):
Recursively self-improving code generation, 2024. URLhttps://arxiv.org/abs/2310.02304.
Hangfan Zhang, Siyuan Xu, Zhimeng Guo, Huaisheng Zhu, Shicheng Liu, Xinrun Wang, Qiaosheng
Zhang, Yang Chen, Peng Ye, Lei Bai, et al. The path of self-evolving large language models:
Achieving data-efficient learning via intrinsic feedback.arXiv preprint arXiv:2510.02752, 2025a.
Jenny Zhang, Shengran Hu, Cong Lu, Robert Lange, and Jeff Clune. Darwin gödel machine: Open-
ended evolution of self-improving agents, 2025b. URLhttps://arxiv.org/abs/2505.22954.
Qizheng Zhang, Changran Hu, Shubhangi Upasani, Boyuan Ma, Fenglu Hong, Vamsidhar Kamanuru,
Jay Rainton, Chen Wu, Mengmeng Ji, Hanchen Li, Urmish Thakker, James Zou, and Kunle Olukotun.
Agentic context engineering: Evolving contexts for self-improving language models, 2026. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2510.04618. ICLR 2026.
Shao Zhang, Xihuai Wang, Wenhao Zhang, Chaoran Li, Junru Song, Tingyu Li, Lin Qiu, Xuezhi
Cao, Xunliang Cai, Wen Yao, Weinan Zhang, Xinbing Wang, and Ying Wen. Leveraging dual
process theory in language agent framework for real-time simultaneous human-AI collaboration.
18

[[page 19]]
Self-Harness: Harnesses That Improve Themselves
In Wanxiang Che, Joyce Nabende, Ekaterina Shutova, and Mohammad Taher Pilehvar, editors,
Proceedings of the 63rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume
1: Long Papers), pages 4081–4108, Vienna, Austria, July 2025c. Association for Computational
Linguistics. ISBN 979-8-89176-251-0. doi: 10.18653/v1/2025.acl-long.206. URL https://
aclanthology.org/2025.acl-long.206/.
Ningyan Zhu, Huacan Wang, Jie Zhou, Feiyu Chen, Shuo Zhang, Ge Chen, Chen Liu, Jiarou Wu,
Wangyi Chen, Xiaofeng Mou, and Yi Xu. Semaclaw: A step towards general-purpose personal ai
agents through harness engineering, 2026. URLhttps://arxiv.org/abs/2604.11548.
Mingchen Zhuge, Wenyi Wang, Louis Kirsch, Francesco Faccio, Dmitrii Khizbullin, and Juergen
Schmidhuber. Language agents as optimizable graphs, 2024. URLhttps://arxiv.org/abs/
2402.16823.
19

[[page 20]]
Self-Harness: Harnesses That Improve Themselves
A. Benchmark Configurations and Reproducibility Details
A.1. Model Inference Services
MiniMax M2.5 and GLM-5 were accessed through hosted inference services, using MiniMax’s
hosted API and OpenRouter, respectively.1 Qwen3.5-35B-A3B was deployed locally on four NVIDIA
H200 GPUs using an internal image derived from the public SGLang Docker imagelmsysorg/
sglang:v0.5.12-cu129.2
A.2. Benchmark Configurations
Shared reproducibility settings.Each candidate evaluation uses two repeated attempts. We keep
the task sets, model backends, benchmark environments, evaluators, and all non-editable runtime
settings fixed within each comparison.
Terminal-Bench-2.0 configuration.We use Harbor3 as the execution environment for all Terminal-
Bench-2.0 tasks. Evaluations use a 2 MB/s outbound network bandwidth cap. To reduce failures
caused by incidental network latency rather than agent behavior, we mirror a subset of external
resources required by Terminal-Bench-2.0 tasks when the original resources are stable but slow to
download. Tasks that depend on external resources that cannot be accessed reliably, as well as tasks
requiring multimodal inputs unsupported by the initial harness, are excluded from the main 64-case
evaluation set. This configuration keeps the benchmark environment controlled while preserving the
core terminal-interaction setting of Terminal-Bench-2.0.
SWE-bench Verified configuration.We use a fixed 100-case subset of SWE-bench Verified, parti-
tioned into 67 held-in and 33 held-out cases. Cases are sampled proportionally by repository, and the
resulting split is fixed across all harness variants. Each task is run in an isolated per-instance Docker
sandbox initialized with its repository workspace. The resulting patch is scored by the official SWE-
bench evaluator in the corresponding prebuilt, task-specific instance image.4 We use a 3,600-second
case timeout and a 120-second tool timeout.
AppWorld configuration.We use a fixed 180-example AppWorld evaluation set with 90 held-in
and 90 held-out examples. The held-in split contains all examples from AppWorld’s officialtrain
partition, while the held-out split is proportionally sampled from the officialtest_normal and
test_challenge partitions and then fixed across all harness variants. Each task is executed in a
fresh AppWorld context with isolated task state and is scored using AppWorld’s official evaluator. We
allow at most 50 agent turns per task.
B. Expanded Experimental Analyses
B.1. Terminal-Bench-2.0
We report the GLM-5 evolution trajectory, retained edits, and a representative Terminal-Bench-2.0
build-task trace.
1MiniMax token plan:https://platform.minimax.io/subscribe/token-plan; OpenRouter GLM-5 endpoint:
https://openrouter.ai/z-ai/glm-5. Accessed on 2026/05.
2https://hub.docker.com/r/lmsysorg/sglang/tags?name=v0.5.12-cu129.
3https://www.harborframework.com/docs/tutorials/running-terminal-bench.
4Official SWE-bench images are available athttps://hub.docker.com/u/swebench; per-instance repositories
follow the naming patternswebench/sweb.eval.x86_64.<instance-id>.
20

[[page 21]]
Self-Harness: Harnesses That Improve Themselves
Figure 8| Representative Qwen3.5 traces on the Terminal-Bench-2.0extract-elf task. Left: the
initial harness ends with the required extractor missing. Right: the edited harness restores the
extractor and validates its output.
Figure 9| Case study of a GLM-5 harness edit on the Terminal-Bench-2.0build-pov-ray task. Left:
a failed trace under the initial harness, where long monolithic external downloads consume large
tool budgets and the agent later finalizes despite repeated non-zero sanity checks. Right: a successful
trace under the edited harness, where the agent uses bounded staged operations, checks external
archive evidence before committing more work, and repairs the failed sanity check before finalizing.
B.2. SWE-bench Verified
MiniMax M2.5.Overall Pass increases from 46.0% to 52.5%. The promoted harness separates
empty-diff detection from targeted local testing: a diff-inspection subagent checks whether a patch
exists, and a test-verifier subagent runs the most relevant failing test. In the representative Astropy
FITS-card case, the initial harness makes the source change but does not finish verification, whereas
the promoted harness resolves dependencies, validates the patch, and completes with the required
source change.
21

[[page 22]]
Self-Harness: Harnesses That Improve Themselves
Qwen3.5-35B-A3B.Overall Pass increases from 19.5% to 41.5%. The retained harness combines
a patch-verifier subagent with a direct pre-submission instruction to inspect the current diff and
run targeted tests. In the representative Django window-function case, the initial harness submits a
patch without successfully running the relevant test suite, and its sole FAIL-TO-PASS test remains
unresolved. The retained harness instead places the SQLite casting guard at the inner window-
compatible expression, runs the 49-testexpressions_window suite before submission, and passes
all 1 FAIL-TO-PASS and 46 PASS-TO-PASS tests.
GLM-5.Overall Pass increases from 52.0% to 55.5%. The promoted harness extends the FAIL-
TO-PASS verification cycle with dependency-aware recovery: it parses import failures, identifies
and installs missing packages, reruns the exact test, and continues debugging if the test remains
unsuccessful. In the Astropy trace, the initial harness submits after only a syntax check, leaving
all four FAIL-TO-PASS tests and five PASS-TO-PASS tests failing; the promoted harness completes
executable verification, after which all four FAIL-TO-PASS and all 68 PASS-TO-PASS tests pass.
B.3. AppWorld
MiniMax M2.5.Overall Pass increases from 48.6% to 58.9%. The promoted harness combines a
state-auditor subagent with pagination and temporal-boundary guidance. In the Venmo case, the
initial harness requests payment from all seven participants, whereas the promoted harness exhausts
transaction pages, applies the time boundary, identifies four participants who have paid, and requests
payment only from the remaining three.
Qwen3.5-35B-A3B.Overall Pass increases from 22.5% to 52.2%. The final harness retains two
prompt-level guards: a completion-contract guard distinguishes action-only tasks from information
requests, and a pagination guard requires complete record retrieval and a final target-object check. In
the Spotify case, the initial harness returns a null play-count result; the promoted harness exhausts
the library pages, compares play counts, and returns the expected song.
GLM-5.Overall Pass increases from 44.4% to 85.0%. Its final harness adds an action-versus-
information completion rule and exhaustive pagination before state mutation. In the Venmo case, the
initial harness uses only the first transaction page and supplies an unnecessary textual answer; the
promoted harness exhausts all pages, mutates all 12 records, and completes the action-only task with
a null answer.
Across SWE-bench Verified, all three promoted harnesses strengthen verification but choose differ-
ent structures: MiniMax separates empty-diff and targeted-test checks, Qwen delegates inspection to
a patch-verifier subagent, and GLM embeds dependency repair in the verification instruction. Across
AppWorld, the runs converge on complete state retrieval and correct completion semantics, again
through model-specific harness mechanisms.
22

[[page 23]]
Self-Harness: Harnesses That Improve Themselves
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18
Candidate evaluations
46
50
54
58Pass (%)
46.1
50.8
53.9
56.3
57.0
accepted rejected branch endpoint
50.8
53.9
Initial harness
Late artifacts
> write early; force cleanup
External compute
> bound, stage, inspect
Session-scoped tools
> persist PATH and verify
Implementation nudge
> shift to build/test
(a) Evolution trajectory.
(b) Retained code-level edits.
Figure 10| GLM-5 on Terminal-Bench-2.0. Panel (a) shows the evolution from 46.1% to 57.0%
overall Pass, with green markers for accepted candidates, gray crosses for rejected candidates, and red
crosses for explored branch endpoints. Panel (b) shows the retained edits for persistent environment
configuration and the transition from exploration to implementation.
23

[[page 24]]
Self-Harness: Harnesses That Improve Themselves
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
Candidate evaluations
44
46
48
50
52
54
56Pass (%)
46.0
50.0
51.0
52.5
accepted rejected branch endpoint
Initial harness
Empty patches
> diff detector
Stricter test policy
> local-test enforcement
Untested patch
> local verification
(a) Evolution trajectory.
(b) Retained code-level edits.
Figure 11| MiniMax M2.5 on SWE-bench Verified. Overall Pass increases from 46.0% to 52.5%. Panel
(a) shows the evolution trajectory, with green markers for accepted candidates and gray crosses for
rejected candidates. Panel (b) shows the retained edits, which separate empty-diff detection from
targeted local testing.
24

[[page 25]]
Self-Harness: Harnesses That Improve Themselves
Figure 12| SWE-bench Verified Astropy FITS-card float-formatting traces for MiniMax M2.5. Left: the
initial harness makes the source change but stops before completing executable verification. Right:
the promoted harness resolves the missing dependencies, runs targeted validation, and completes
with the required source change.
25

[[page 26]]
Self-Harness: Harnesses That Improve Themselves
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25
Candidate evaluations
20
25
30
35
40
45Pass (%)
19.5
22.5 23.5
32.5 33.0
35.0
39.5
41.5
accepted rejected branch endpoint
22.5 23.5
32.5
Initial harness
Empty patches
> verifier subagent
Silent failures
> inspect test output
No code change
> require non-empty diff
Traceback drift
> fix exact frame
Unverified patch
> check diff and test
Missed verifier call
> enforce before submit
Policy bloat
> targeted tests only
(a) Evolution trajectory.
(b) Retained code-level edits.
Figure 13|Qwen3.5-35B-A3B on SWE-bench Verified. Overall Pass increases from 19.5% to 41.5%.
Panel (a) shows the evolution trajectory, and panel (b) shows the retained patch-verifier and pre-
submission checks that require inspection of the current diff and execution of targeted tests.
26

[[page 27]]
Self-Harness: Harnesses That Improve Themselves
Figure 14| SWE-bench Verified Django window-function traces for Qwen3.5-35B-A3B. Left: the
initial harness submits without running the relevant suite and fails the sole FAIL-TO-PASS test. Right:
the retained harness runs that suite before submission and passes all required tests.
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
Candidate evaluations
50
52
54
56
58Pass (%)
52.0
53.0
54.0
55.5
54.5
accepted rejected branch endpoint
Initial harness
Single test failure
> FAIL_TO_PASS feedback
Failing test loop
> parse/debug/fix cycle
Missing dependencies
> install then rerun
Setup failures
> bootstrap preinstall
(a) Evolution trajectory.
(b) Retained code-level edits.
Figure 15| GLM-5 on SWE-bench Verified. Overall Pass increases from 52.0% to 55.5%. Panel (a)
shows the evolution trajectory, and panel (b) shows the retained dependency-aware verification cycle,
which recovers from import failures before rerunning the relevant tests.
27

[[page 28]]
Self-Harness: Harnesses That Improve Themselves
Figure 16| SWE-bench Verified Astropy topocentric ITRS transformation traces for GLM-5. Left: the
initial harness performs only a syntax check, leaving all four FAIL-TO-PASS tests and five PASS-TO-
PASS tests failing. Right: the promoted harness repairs missing dependencies, completes executable
verification, and passes all four FAIL-TO-PASS and all 68 PASS-TO-PASS tests.
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13
Candidate evaluations
45
50
55
60Pass (%)
48.6
52.5 52.2 52.8
58.9
accepted rejected branch endpoint
Initial harness
Action-only tasks
> null completion
Turn-waste loops
> stop exploration
Wrong completion
> verify answer
Partial records
> pagination + state audit
(a) Evolution trajectory.
(b) Retained code-level edits.
Figure 17| MiniMax M2.5 on AppWorld. Overall Pass increases from 48.6% to 58.9%. Panel (a)
shows the evolution trajectory, and panel (b) shows the retained state-auditing, pagination, and
temporal-boundary mechanisms used to identify the complete set of target records.
28

[[page 29]]
Self-Harness: Harnesses That Improve Themselves
Figure 18| AppWorld Venmo traces for MiniMax M2.5. Left: the initial harness requests payment
from all seven participants without accounting for prior transactions. Right: the promoted harness
exhausts the transaction pages, identifies the four participants who have already paid, and requests
payment only from the remaining three.
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22
Candidate evaluations
20
30
40
50
60Pass (%)
22.5 22.8
42.2
52.2
48.3
45.8
49.4
42.8
accepted rejected branch endpoint
Initial harness
Ambiguous time range
> temporal-boundary guard
Wrong final answer
> answer-null guard
Partial record lists
> pagination guard
Pagination runner error
> pagination guard
Unverified state
> verification guard
Premature completion
> completion guard
Wrong extraction
> extraction guard
(a) Evolution trajectory.
(b) Retained code-level edits.
Figure 19| Qwen3.5-35B-A3B on AppWorld. Overall Pass increases from 22.5% to 52.2%. Panel (a)
shows the evolution trajectory, and panel (b) shows the retained completion-contract and pagination
guards, which require complete retrieval and distinguish action-only tasks from information requests.
29

[[page 30]]
Self-Harness: Harnesses That Improve Themselves
Figure 20| AppWorld Spotify traces for Qwen3.5-35B-A3B. Left: the initial harness returns a null
play-count result after incomplete retrieval. Right: the promoted harness exhausts the library pages,
compares the retrieved play counts, and returns the expected song.
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13
Candidate evaluations
40
50
60
70
80
90Pass (%)
44.4
76.4
67.2
74.7
85.0
accepted rejected branch endpoint
Initial harness
Action-only tasks
> null completion
Turn-budget exhaustion
> progress-check reminder
Partial record lists
> pagination exhaustion
Merged retained
> completion + pagination
(a) Evolution trajectory.
(b) Retained code-level edits.
Figure 21| GLM-5 on AppWorld. Overall Pass increases from 44.4% to 85.0%. Panel (a) shows the
evolution trajectory, and panel (b) shows the retained action-versus-information completion rule and
exhaustive-pagination requirement applied before state mutation.
30

[[page 31]]
Self-Harness: Harnesses That Improve Themselves
Figure 22| AppWorld Venmo traces for GLM-5. Left: the initial harness reads only the first transaction
page and supplies an unnecessary textual answer. Right: the promoted harness exhausts all pages,
mutates all 12 target records, and completes the action-only task with a null answer.
31