[[page 1]]
The Knowledge Engineering Review (2025), 40, e10, pp. 1–53
doi:10.1017/S026988892510009X
RESEARCH ARTICLE
Automating agentic collaborative ontology engineering
with role-playing simulation of LLM-powered agents and
RAG technology
Andreas Soularidis1 , Dimitrios Doumanas1 , Konstantinos Kotis1 , and George A. Vouros2
1Department of Cultural Technology and Communications, Intelligent Systems Lab, University of the Aegean, University Hill,
81100 Lesvos, Greece
2Department of Digital Systems, AI Lab, Gr. Lampraki 126, University of Piraeus, Piraeus, Greece
Corresponding author: Andreas Soularidis; Email: soularidis@aegean.gr
Received: 5 February 2025; Revised: 20 November 2025; Accepted: 21 November 2025
Abstract
Motivated by the astonishing capabilities of large language models (LLMs) in text-generation, reasoning, and sim-
ulation of complex human behaviors, in this paper, we propose a novel multi-component LLM-based framework,
namely LLM4ACOE, that fully automates the collaborative ontology engineering (COE) process using role-playing
simulation of LLM agents and retrieval augmented generation (RAG) technology. The proposed solution enhances
the LLM-powered role-playing simulation with RAG ‘feeding’ the LLM with three diﬀerent types of external
knowledge. This knowledge corresponds to the knowledge required by each of the COE roles (agents), using a
component-based framework, as follows: (a) domain-speciﬁc data-centric documents, (b) OWL documentation,
and (c) ReAct guidelines. The aforementioned components are evaluated in combination, with the aim of investi-
gating their impact on the quality of generated ontologies. The aim of this work is twofold, (a) to identify the capacity
of LLM-based agents to generate acceptable (by human-experts) ontologies through agentic collaborative ontology
engineering (ACOE) role-playing simulation, at speciﬁc levels of acceptance (accuracy, validity, and expressiveness
of ontologies) without human intervention and (b) to investigate whether and/or to what extent the selected RAG
components aﬀect the quality of the generated ontologies. The evaluation of this novel approach is performed using
ChatGPT-o in the domain of search and rescue (SAR) missions. To assess the generated ontologies, quantitative
and qualitative measures are employed, focusing on coverage, expressiveness, structure, and human involvement.
1. Introduction
The engineering of ontologies (OE) is fundamental for delivering structured knowledge in formal and
explicit ways, enabling semantic interoperability, integration, and linking of data across diﬀerent sys-
tems and applications. Collaborative ontology engineering (COE) involves multiple stakeholders, such
as Domain Experts, Knowledge Engineers, and so called, Knowledge Workers. A collaborative and iter-
ative OE approach ensures that engineered ontology captures diverse perspectives and insights, resulting
in a more comprehensive and accurate representation of the domain. The importance of COE lies in its
ability to integrate collective expertise iteratively and continuously, which is crucial for addressing the
complexity and intricacy of real-world domains.
Our motivation to conduct research on advancing COE through artiﬁcial intelligence (AI)-assisted
agent-based automation stems from its inherent challenges and demands, as well as from the strengths
Cite this article: A. Soularidis, D. Doumanas, K. Kotis and G. Vouros. Automating agentic collaborative ontology engineering
with role-playing simulation of LLM-powered agents and RAG technology.The Knowledge Engineering Review 40(e10): 1–53.
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X
C© The Author(s), 2025. Published by Cambridge University Press. This is an Open Access article, distributed under the terms of the Creative
Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike licence ( https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/), which permits non-commercial
re-use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the same Creative Commons licence is used to distribute the re-used or adapted
article and the original article is properly cited. The written permission of Cambridge University Press or the rights holder(s) must be obtained prior
to any commercial use.
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 2]]
2 Andreas Soularidis et al.
of LLMs to support knowledge-intensive tasks. COE is labor-intensive, time-consuming, and prone
to incomplete representation of knowledge (Glimm et al., 2014). Furthermore, it necessitates exten-
sive expertise and meticulous attention to detailed deﬁnitions of ontological axioms. Recent related
works on the automation of COE (Doumanas et al., 2025) demonstrated potential solutions by
enhancing the ontology development process, reducing the burden on human experts, and increasing eﬃ-
ciency. However, while automation can signiﬁcantly enhance productivity, it is not without limitations.
Automated approaches may lack the nuanced understanding of the domain and the contextual aware-
ness that human experts provide. Therefore, human involvement remains crucial, at least for reﬁning
and validating the generated ontologies, ensuring their accuracy, validity, and expressiveness.
Collaboration and role-playing simulation play a pivotal role in this context. Role-playing in agen-
tic collaborative ontology engineering (ACOE) involves simulating various stakeholder roles, allowing
participants to adopt diﬀerent perspectives and better understand the needs and constraints of each role.
This approach improves communication and enhances problem-solving capabilities within the team. By
combining automation and collaborative role-playing, the strengths of both can be leveraged.
The advent of LLMs such as OpenAI’s GPT4, Anthropic’s Claude, etc., have opened new avenues
in a plethora of ﬁelds including OE (Doumanaset al., 2024). LLMs are models trained on vast amounts
of data, showing a remarkable performance on generating human-like text, making them powerful tools
for automating various aspects of OE, such as translating natural language (NL) into SWRL (Soularidis
et al., 2024), text-to-SPARQL (Avilaet al., 2024), ontology learning (Lo et al., 2024), etc. The appli-
cation of LLMs in OE has the potential to markedly reduce the time and eﬀort required for delivering
domain ontologies. Furthermore, the potential domain knowledge of LLMs, as acquired through expo-
sure to related data during training, could further enrich and improve the quality of the generated
ontologies. In addition, LLMs have demonstrated remarkable proﬁciency in role-playing, empowering
various simulations (Park et al., 2023). Consequently, the integration of role-playing and LLMs has the
potential to further enhance COE, towards the new concept of ACOE.
On the other hand, LLMs have been observed to frequently exhibit irrelevant (Reddy et al., 2024),
erroneous and outdated responses (Liu et al., 2023), factors that diminish their credibility and conﬁ-
dence. Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) technology has emerged in the ﬁeld with the objective
of reducing the aforementioned limitations. RAG can enhance the ﬁne-tuning of responses generated by
LLMs as it facilitates the augmentation of prompts with additional (external) information (Salemiet al.,
2024). This functionality enables the feed of LLMs with domain-focused speciﬁc data, achieving more
up-to-date and accurate responses (from generic to narrow knowledge), together with other task/problem
speciﬁc information. Subsequently, it can be conjectured that RAG is a promising technological solution
with the potential to play a pivotal role in the OE process.
In this context, the paper presents a novel LLM-based framework, namely LLM4ACOE, that auto-
mates the COE process via role-playing simulation and RAG technology, extending our previous
work on a fully automated LLM-based COE methodology, namely the Sim-HCOME methodology
(Doumanas et al., 2025). Particularly, the LLM is prompted to collaboratively engineer ontologies by
simulating three roles (one per agent: Knowledge Engineer, Domain Expert, Knowledge Worker) deﬁned
in the HCOME methodology (Kotis & Vouros, 2006; Paparidis & Kotis, 2021), following an iterative
discussion. The LLM user, a designated Prompt Engineer (human agent), is tasked with the crafting of
the prompt, ensuring the incorporation of all essential ontology-speciﬁc information, including the aim,
scope, requirements, and Competency Questions (CQs). In addition to this, the Prompt Engineer fulﬁlls
the role of human expert, a further role beyond the simulated ones, responsible for the evaluation of
the engineered ontologies, without the capacity to intervene in the ACOE process. To support agents in
playing their simulated roles, in this paper, we leverage RAG technology to feed the LLM with additional
information, in addition to the information provided in the prompt that is, the aim, scope, requirements
and CQs of the ontology to be created. Particularly, the proposed approach utilizes RAG technology
to feed the LLM with (a) domain-speciﬁc data-centric documents and (b) the Web Ontology Language
(OWL) documentation, and (c) ReAct guidelines1 (Yao et al., 2023). The evaluation of the proposed
1The ReAct framework is not incorporated into the proposed ACOE approach, instead, the ReAct approached is followed.
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 3]]
The Knowledge Engineering Review 3
approach is performed using ChatGPT4-o, after experimentation and evaluation of other state-of-the-art
LLMs such as Gemini Pro and Claude Sonnet.
Summarizing, the aim of this work is twofold, (a) to identify the capacity of LLM-based agents to
generate acceptable (by human-experts) ontologies, at speciﬁc levels of acceptance (accurate, valid, and
expressive ontologies) through ACOE role-playing simulation, without any human interventions and (b)
to investigate whether and/or to what extent the selected RAG components supporting ACOE, aﬀect the
quality of the generated ontologies. The contribution of this paper is summarized as follows:
1. It presents a novel approach to fully automated LLM-based ACOE using RAG and role-playing
simulations.
2. It reports research ﬁndings related to the impact of knowledge (i.e. beyond that of LLMs)
injected into the prompt via RAG components on the quality of the generated ontologies.
3. It applies and evaluates the proposed approach to the SAR domain, demonstrating its practical
utility and eﬀectiveness in a real-world scenario.
The structure of the paper is as follows: Section 2 presents background knowledge regarding the
role-playing simulation, Sim-HCOME methodology, RAG technology, and ReAct framework, while
Section 3 presents related work. Section4 presents the proposed framework and implementation details,
while Section 5 discusses the experimental setup. Section 6 reports the results of the experiments con-
ducted, and Section7 critically discusses these results. Finally, Section8 concludes the paper and reports
future plans.
2. Background
2.1. Role-playing simulation
LLMs have emerged in the ﬁeld of AI demonstrating remarkable capabilities in text understanding, gen-
eration, and reasoning. These capabilities of LLM motivated people to instruct LLMs to take on roles
they desire, such as movie stars, game characters, or even their own relatives (Chenet al., 2024). This
behavior of LLM to simulate speciﬁc characters/personas is known as role-playing. Their accomplish-
ments extend beyond the simulation of unique personas, eﬀectively simulating a broader range of human
behaviors. Particularly, they have demonstrated more sophisticated capabilities toward anthropomorphic
cognition, including humanity emulation (Chang et al., 2023; Shanahan et al., 2023), and social intel-
ligence (Kosinski, 2024), producing a highly convincing sense of human likeness. These role-playing
simulated agents allow us to proceed to the simulation of many real-world settings, in order to under-
stand, analyze trends in behavior or to fully automate several engineering tasks, including OE related
ones, as we aim to present in this work.
2.2. Sim-HCOME
Sim-HCOME (Doumanas et al., 2025) extends the HCOME OE methodology (Kotis & Vouros,2006;
Paparidis & Kotis, 2021) by integrating the power of LLMs and role-playing simulation, where LLM-
simulated agents work entirely autonomously, fully automating the OE process. In this approach, the
LLM is assigned the lead role in OE tasks, simulating the three roles of HCOME that is, Knowledge
Engineer, Domain Expert, and Knowledge Worker, in an iterative discussion towards the development
of domain speciﬁc ontologies (Figure 1). The Prompt Engineer ‘feeds’ the model, in a single prompt,
with all the necessary information needed for role-playing simulation, describing the given roles and the
responsibilities that each one of them will have. The basic input information regarding the OE remains
the same that is, aim and scope of the ontology, its requirements, and its CQs. The LLM, taking into
account the given data, performs the simulation via an iterative discussion between the three assigned
roles, trying to capture the domain knowledge and generate a coherent ontology. It is important to note
that the LLM decides autonomously when the simulated COE is completed, and no further exploration
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 4]]
4 Andreas Soularidis et al.
Figure 1. The Sim-HCOME COE methodology
or discussion between the three roles is needed, since the Prompt Engineer (human) is not allowed
to interfere at any stage apart from evaluating the ﬁnal outcome that is, the generated ontology. At this
point, it is worth noting that we have previously explored a similar version of this approach, where human
agents are also involved in ACOE. This approach, namely SimX-HCOME, is evaluated and presented
in another work of ours (Doumanas et al., 2025). The focus of this paper is limited to fully automated
approaches powered by LLMs, role-playing simulation and RAG technology.
2.3. RAG
Despite their incredible performance in human-like text generation and their integration in various
domains such as software engineering (Huang et al., 2023), notaries and law (Litaina et al., 2024),
etc., LLMs suﬀer from erroneous, inconsistent, or even outdated responses (Perkovicet al., 2024). RAG
technology has been developed to enhance the accuracy and reliability of generative AI (GenAI) models
with additional data fetched from external resources (e.g., ﬁles in various formats, data from the Web,
etc.). By pulling in relevant data from external resources, RAG allows LLMs to generate more precise,
accurate, and contextually appropriate responses.
In its simplest version, the RAG process can be broken down into two principal stages. In the ﬁrst
stage, the external data are loaded and split into smaller parts, known as chunks. These chunks are
then transformed (embedded) into vectors and stored in vector stores. The second stage is the retrieval
process, which aims to retrieve the most relevant data from the vector store based on the user input.
To achieve this, the user input (prompt) is also transformed into a vector. A special component is used,
namely the Retriever, aiming to ﬁnd and retrieve the most similar context based on the given input
(query), by measuring the distance between the user query and the data from the vector store. This is done
following related algorithms and techniques, such as the cosine similarity, etc. Finally, the retrieved data,
which are called documents, are pushed to the LLM (along with the prompt) to generate the response.
The whole RAG process is described in Figure2.
2.4. ReAct
Motivated by the inherent ability of humans to combine task-oriented actions with verbal reasoning,
Yao et al.( 2023) proposed the ReAct framework in language models. The proposed approach combines
both reasoning traces and task-speciﬁc actions following an interleaved manner to accomplish a given
goal. The synergy between the two main procedures of ‘thinking’ and ‘acting’ promote the handling of
exceptions or adjustment of the initial plan according to the environment situation. Conversely to con-
ventional ‘chain-of-thought’ approach that works as a static black box, ReAct goes beyond by prompting
the LLM to generate both verbal reasoning traces and task-speciﬁc actions iteratively, allowing the LLM
to perform dynamic reasoning based on the current situation and the external environment.
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 5]]
The Knowledge Engineering Review 5
Figure 2. Basic RAG architecture
Figure 3. The ReAct approach
Their approach, given a goal, tries to decompose it into smaller tasks, following thought–act–
observation iterations until the goal is accomplished, as depicted in Figure 3. To do that, the LLM
is fed with manually created ReAct-format trajectories (thought-action-observation steps) that consti-
tute randomly selected cases from a training set. The experimental results, performed on multi-hop
question-answering, fact checking, and iterative decision-making tasks, demonstrate the supremacy of
the proposed approach compared to traditional methods. It must be noted that in the research work pre-
sented in this paper, the ReAct framework is not incorporated as it has been originally proposed. Instead,
we tailor the ReAct approach to OE tasks such as adding a new class to the ontology, reusing an existing
ontology, etc. Thus, instead of referring to the ReAct framework, we refer to ReAct guidelines tailored
to support OE tasks.
3. Related work
3.1. LLMs and OE
Zhang et al .( 2024) propose an LLM-based framework, namely OntoChat, to foster collaborative
ontology engineering by implementing a conversational workﬂow among LLMs and stakeholders
(i.e., ontology engineers, domain experts). The proposed framework facilitates challenging and time-
consuming manual tasks concerning the OE as they rated by ontology engineers in a survey conducted.
The OntoChat leverages LLMs to facilitate requirement elicitation by creating user stories and gen-
erating CQs, analysis by providing CQs veriﬁcation, reduction, and clustering, and ﬁnally testing by
verbalizing the generated ontologies. The proposed framework is evaluated by replicating the engi-
neering of the Music Meta ontology. The experimental results demonstrate, despite some misses and
limitations, a positive response from the stakeholders, indicating potential for accelerating conventional
ontology engineering tasks.
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 6]]
6 Andreas Soularidis et al.
Fathallah et al .( 2024) focus on synergy of LLMs with OE methodologies, integrating the NeOn
OE methodology, using prompt engineering techniques, and proposing the NeOn-GPT, an LLM-based
framework for ontology learning. The proposed framework leverages the power of LLMs to auto-
matically translate natural language domain descriptions into turtle syntax ontologies. The authors
capitalize prompt engineering techniques such as CoT, few-shot prompting, and role-playing to achieve
more relevant responses. The proposed framework uses external online tools such as HermitT reasoner
Application Programming Interface (API) (Glimmet al., 2014) and OOPS API (Poveda-Villalónet al.,
2014) to perform syntax validation, consistency check and pitfall resolution, while it is evaluated using
the Stanford wine ontology as the gold standard. The experimental results illustrate that the combina-
tion of prompt engineering techniques with OE methodologies can facilitate the generation of more
consistent ontologies by the LLMs.
Mateiu and Groza ( 2023) present a method for enhancing ontologies by translating natural lan-
guage sentences into Description Logic using a ﬁne-tuned GPT-3 model. This approach aims to address
the technical challenges and costs of ontology development, which have hindered the success of the
Semantic Web. Implemented as a plugin for the Protégé editor, the tool automates the creation and
enrichment of ontologies by converting NL into OWL Functional Syntax. The authors trained the model
on a dataset of 150 prompt-axiom pairs, demonstrating its ability to handle various ontology-related
tasks. This automation reduces the need for constant expert input, thus saving development time and
improving decision-making in ontology engineering.
Doumanas et al.( 2024) focus on a collaborative approach between humans and LLMs, proposing
X-HCOME. Motivated by the capabilities of LLMs to understand enormous amount of data and gener-
ate human-like text, the proposed methodology adjusts and extends the HCOME OEM (Kotis & Vouros,
2006; Paparidis & Kotis, 2021) by integrating LLMs into the OE lifecycle in the context of SAR mis-
sions. The proposed methodology is centered on the synergy of human expertise and the capabilities of
LLMs. This hybrid approach facilitates the development of ontologies addressing some of the common
limitations that are inherent into conventional OEM, facilitating the rapid development of ontologies.
A recent work of Doumanas et al.( 2025) investigates the potential of LLMs to facilitate, speed up
or even automate the OE process by experimenting with distinct levels of LLM’s involvement into the
OE process. The proposed approach is grounded in HCOME OEM and explores the impact on the qual-
ity of the generated ontologies as human involvement is reduced. The investigation encompasses the
entire range of synergy between humans and LLMs, spanning from manual human-generated ontolo-
gies to automated LLM-generated ontologies. The experiments conducted on two distinct domains, SAR
missions and Parkinson’s disease, have yielded noteworthy outcomes. These experiments have demon-
strated the impact on LLMs in the OE pipeline, highlighting its potential to enhance both the speed
and the accuracy of the process. Moreover, these experiments have underscored the necessity of human
expertise, particularly in critical interventions and adjustments, thereby emphasizing the importance of
human involvement in the context of OEMs with LLMs.
3.2. LLMs and RAG
Despite their remarkable performance in analyzing enormous amount of data and generating human-like
text, LLMs are frequently suﬀer from irrelevant or outdated responses. RAG has emerged as a solution
of the above limitations of LLMs, while also providing them with domain knowledge from external
sources.
In this context, Pan et al.( 2024) present a RAG-based approach to automate the generation of CQs
for OE. This study combines the remarkable capabilities of LLM in text generation, enhanced with the
domain knowledge available via RAG, with the aim of automating the time-consuming and labor-intense
generation of CQs. The study evaluates both the quality and quantity of external resources utilized in
the generation of CQs. The experimental results demonstrate the superiority of RAG in cases where
more domain knowledge is required, compared to zero-shot prompting techniques. The research also
highlights that not only the quantity but also the quality of external data improves the eﬃcacy of RAG-
based solutions.
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 7]]
The Knowledge Engineering Review 7
Soularidis et al.( 2024) proposes an ontology-based framework combining the power of LLMs with
RAG to automatically translate rules from NL into SWRL following a template driven approach. In
this study, the authors utilize RAG to feed the LLM with ontology concepts to further assist the LLM
in the translation process. The experiments conducted in the domain of SAR missions demonstrate that
enhancing the LLM with external knowledge via RAG and implementing prompt engineering techniques
results in more accurate and well-formed SWRL rules.
Kommineni et al.( 2024) investigate the (semi-) automatic construction of Knowledge Graphs (KGs)
leveraging open-source LLMs and RAG. In this direction, the proposed approach includes a pipeline
from CQs generation and Ontology creation to KG construction and evaluation. The study focuses on
the construction of KGs with little or no human intervention. In this context, the RAG approach is used
to facilitate the KG construction by retrieving the answers to the deﬁned CQs from a set of scholarly
publications. The experimental results obtained highlight the potential for ontology and KG generation
requiring less eﬀort and less expertise in semantic web technologies.
To address the challenge of hallucination in AI-driven question-answering (QA) systems, Zhaoet al.
(2024) propose CyberRAG. The proposed approach integrates LLMs with an ontology-aware RAG
mechanism to enhance the safety and reliability of QA systems in education. This pioneering approach
focuses on the quality of the generated results that are critical in such educational systems, ensuring
the validity of LLMs responses even in cases where the questions fall outside the scope of the RAG’s
knowledge base. To prevent the LLM from responding solely on the base of its own knowledge, the
proposed solution augments the LLM knowledge with domain-speciﬁc data and validates the responses
by leveraging ontologies and KGs. This fosters a more interactive and secure learning environment.
DeBellis et al.( 2024) motivated by the exposed hallucinations, bias, black-box reasoning and lack of
in-depth domain knowledge that is inherent to LLMs, propose a KG RAG-based architecture to tackle
the aforementioned challenges towards the development of a semantic search toll for dental products
and materials. The proposed solution utilizes an integrated knowledge base for storing both the vectors
and documents as well as additional contextual domain knowledge provided by the ontology. Some
of the advantages of the proposed approach compared to the traditional RAG based solutions include
knowledge reuse, ﬂexibility, and improved context. The authors envision that this approach will pave the
way for the integration of semantic and machine learning technology in a plethora of domains including
healthcare, legal, and security.
3.3. LLMs and role-playing simulations
Hu et al.( 2023) explore the use of LLMs as user simulators to improve task-oriented dialogue systems.
The authors propose a novel approach called User-Guided Response Optimization (UGRO), which opti-
mizes ﬁne-tuned Task-Oriented Dialogue (TOD) models by incorporating satisfaction feedback from
LLM-powered user simulators. By leveraging the capabilities of LLMs to predict satisfaction scores,
the UGRO approach aims to enhance the performance of dialogue systems without the need for manual
annotations. The study validates the eﬀectiveness of UGRO through empirical experiments on TOD
benchmarks, demonstrating improvements in generated responses, user satisfaction and semantic qual-
ity. The research highlights the potential of integrating LLMs as user simulators to enhance the dialogue
experience and suggests future exploration of diﬀerent forms of interaction between LLMs and TOD
systems.
Updyke et al .( 2023) explore the integration of LLMs in simulation frameworks to enhance the
realism of human behavior modeling. By incorporating factors such as knowledge acquisition, moti-
vations based on the Reiss Motivation Proﬁle, and interpersonal relationships among simulated agents,
the research aims to create more authentic interactions. The study highlights the potential of LLMs in
guiding virtual agents to perform coherent and realistic tasks, with implications for improving simula-
tions in ﬁelds like cybersecurity and social media analysis. Future research directions include optimizing
agents understanding and response to LLM directives to further enhance the ﬁdelity of simulated human
activities.
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 8]]
8 Andreas Soularidis et al.
Gui and Toubia (2023) examine the complexities of using LLMs like GPT to simulate human behav-
ior for experimental research. It highlights the challenges of ensuring that simulated patterns can be
interpreted as casual, emphasizing issues with confounding factors when varying treatments in LLM
prompts. The paper reviews traditional experimental methods and discusses how LLMs can mimic these,
proposing two approaches to address confounders: adding detailed controls and specifying experimental
designs. A theoretical framework is presented to understand and potentially overcome these challenges,
concluding that while LLMs have signiﬁcant potential, ensuring valid cause-and-eﬀect relationships in
simulations requires further research and methodological advancements.
Argyle et al .( 2022) explore, using GPT-3, the possibility of using LLMs as a proxy for human
sub-populations in social science research. The authors introduce the concept of ‘algorithmic ﬁdelity’,
showing that with proper conditioning on socio-demographic backstories, GPT-3 can emulate nuanced
human response distributions accurately. This allows for the creation of ‘silicon samples’ that reﬂex
complex human attitudes and socio-cultural contexts. The study demonstrates the potential of GPT-3 in
tasks such as partisan text generation, vote prediction, and survey responses, highlighting its promise as
a powerful tool for advancing social science research.
Filippas et al.( 2024) explores the use of LLMs like GPT-3 to simulate human economic behavior
for research purposes. The authors introduce the concept of ‘homo silicus’, a computational analogue to
‘homo economicus’, which can be used to conduct AI-based economic experiments. The paper demon-
strates that LLMs can replicate classic behavioral economics experiments, providing similar insights to
those obtained from human subjects. These simulations can serve as cost-eﬀective and rapid preliminary
studies, guiding real-world empirical research by exploring a wide range of scenarios and parameters.
While emphasizing the utility of LLMs in economic research, the author acknowledges that ﬁndings
from AI experiments require empirical validation with actual human behavior.
3.4. Summary and conclusion
Current LLM-enhanced OE/COE approaches are facing limitations, beyond those that are inherent to
LLMs. These limitations have a direct impact on both the quality of the generated ontologies and on
the OE process in general. These include the restricted or even, in certain instances, outdated domain
knowledge in specialized domains, which has a deleterious eﬀect on the ontology coverage and the
knowledge that represents (incomplete knowledge). This limitation also leads to an increased reliance
on human expertise, thereby undermining the entire OE process (Zhang et al., 2024). Additionally, it
has been demonstrated that LLMs are deﬁcient in their ability to transform their inherent knowledge
into coherent and well-formed ontologies. This deﬁciency leads to ontologies with poor ontological
axioms (e.g., encoded in OWL) and a reduced level of expressivity in comparison to those generated by
humans (Fathallah et al., 2024). Finally, existing research often focuses on isolated aspects, such as CQ
generation, text-to-SWRL, and text-to-SPARQL translation, rather than integrated/complete solutions.
The aim of this research is to address the aforementioned limitations by proposing a multi-agent
LLM-based framework for ACOE, namely LLM4ACOE, which automates the COE process through
role-playing simulation of LLM agents and RAG technology. The proposed comprehensive, multi-agent
LLM-based framework is capable of expanding the knowledge of LLMs with regard to both domain
knowledge and OE aspects, by leveraging RAG technology. This research evaluates the impact of addi-
tional information, injected to the LLMs via RAG components, on the quality of the generated ontologies
engineered through role-playing simulation, while, secondly, assess the eﬀectiveness of state-of-the-art
RAG-enhanced LLMs in automating the entire ACOE process, focusing on accuracy, validity, coverage,
and expressiveness.
In summary, the proposed agentic COE approach addresses the inherent limitations of LLMs con-
cerning the domain knowledge and COE aspects by enhancing agents participating in role-playing
simulation with additional information, via RAG, such as domain-speciﬁc data (of real-world SAR
missions), OWL documentation (examples of OWL axioms), and ReAct guidelines (thought-action-
observation trajectories) tailored to OE tasks. The goal of this additional information is to foster the
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 9]]
The Knowledge Engineering Review 9
agents’ capability to generate well-structured, coherent, and expressive domain-speciﬁc ontologies,
which also demonstrate a high level of domain coverage.
By applying the proposed LLM4ACOE framework to the SAR domain, its practical utility in a real-
world scenario is evaluated and demonstrated.
4. The LLM4ACOE framework
4.1. Introduction
As stated already, the aim of the LLM4ACOE framework is to automate the COE process with LLM-
powered RAG-enhanced agent-based role-playing simulation. Towards this direction, RAG technology
is utilized, constituting the core of the framework, allowing engineers to add external knowledge such as
domain-speciﬁc data, while also feeding the LLM with ontology engineering guidelines and ontological
axioms examples derived from the OWL documentation, together with ReAct guidelines.
LLM4ACOE is implemented using LangChain 2, a widely used, open-source Python library that
facilitates the development of applications powered by LLMs. LangChain provides the necessary func-
tionality and a high degree of customizability oﬀering plenty of models (e.g., GPT-4o, Claude, Gemini,
etc.), vector stores, retrievers and retrieval algorithms, prompt templates, etc. Furthermore, LangChain
incorporates external platforms such as LangGraph 3 and LangSmith 4. Speciﬁcally, the LangSmith
platform oﬀers functionality for the monitoring of LangChain-based applications. A key function of
LangSmith is the provision of valuable data regarding RAG. Speciﬁcally, it oﬀers comprehensive moni-
toring of the application, providing detailed information on the documents retrieved based on user input,
the number of tokens consumed during a prompt-response transaction, execution times, the total cost
of each transaction, and other relevant data. The LLM4ACOE framework, the prompts and the external
data used to test and evaluate it, and the experimental results obtained from our evaluation strategy, are
available in a GitHub repo5.
4.2. Framework architecture
As depicted in Figure4, the framework architecture is composed of diﬀerent types of modules, each one
meticulously designed to execute a discrete functionality towards automating the COE process through
role-playing simulation. Speciﬁcally, the framework is injected with domain-speciﬁc data, OWL doc-
umentation and ReAct guidelines, via RAG, and a prompt, and it generates an iterative discussion via
role-playing simulation, resulting eventually to the generation of an ontology in Turtle (ontology.ttl) for-
mat, along with the generated arguments (discussion between the three diﬀerent roles assigned to the
LLM) in a text (discussion.txt) format.
4.2.1. RAG components
As already pointed out, the LLM4ACOE framework consists of three RAG components, supporting
the LLM with three diﬀerent types of information that is, domain-speciﬁc data, OWL documentation,
and ReAct guidelines on OE tasks. Each RAG component is designed to support/enhance particular
COE roles played by LLM agents: Knowledge Engineer, Domain Expert, and Knowledge Worker, with
the objective of developing coherent, well-structured, and expressive ontologies capturing the domain
knowledge adequately according to human evaluators (experts).
To ensure that the LLM is fed with data collected from all three RAG components, three Vector
Stores and three Retrievers have been implemented, one for each RAG component. Each one of those
components is engineered to retrieve the most similar data from the related vector stores based on Prompt
2https://python.langchain.com/docs/introduction/.
3https://www.langchain.com/langgraph.
4https://www.langchain.com/langsmith.
5https://github.com/AndreasSoularidis/LLM-based-OE-Framework-LC3.
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 10]]
10 Andreas Soularidis et al.
Figure 4. Proposed framework architecture
Engineer input. Currently, LLM4ACOE supports various data type formats such as text, pdf and csv ﬁles,
while it is also capable of getting data from webpages implementing Web scraping techniques. The three
RAG components are described in the following paragraphs:
• The ﬁrst RAG component (Figure4: Domain Speciﬁc Documents) feeds the LLM with domain
speciﬁc data (e.g., SAR documents collected from real-world scenario). The aim of this com-
ponent is twofold: ﬁrstly, to enhance the knowledge of Domain Expert and Knowledge Worker
simulated agents with domain-speciﬁc information, towards enriching the generated ontologies
with ontology elements for example, classes, object properties, etc., and secondly, to enhance
LLMs to the ‘discovering’ of domain-related elements based on the data that it has been exposed
to during its training phase.
 The second RAG component (Figure 4: OWL documentation) provides the Knowledge
Engineer and Knowledge Worker simulated agents with examples and guidelines concern-
ing OWL axioms, as these are described in the OWL reference documentation. This data is
scraped from the OWL documentation webpage6 and aims to enhance the agent’s expertise in
OE aspects to generate expressive and well-structured ontologies using OWL axioms through
the role-playing simulation.
 Finally, the third RAG component (Figure4: ReAct) provides the Knowledge Engineer simu-
lated agent with reasoning traces and task-speciﬁc actions regarding OE, following the ReAct
approach. Towards this direction a set of reasoning traces (following the thought-action-
observation pattern) that describe the OE process are carefully crafted. Particularly, four
documents have been engineered for the description of OE tasks: (a) the creation of a new
ontology, (b) the integration of a new class into the ontology, (c) the integration of a new
6https://www.w3.org/2007/OWL/draft/owl2-primer/.
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 11]]
The Knowledge Engineering Review 11
Figure 5. Example screenshot of reasoning traces following the ReAct approach tailored to OE
methodology
object property and (d) the integration of a new data property. An example of these traces is
depicted in Figure 5. The goal of this component is to guide the LLM during the simulated
role-playing iterative discussion, to ‘think’ and ‘act’ following the given reasoning traces, and
to perform the necessary OE tasks towards the development of a coherent, comprehensive,
and well-structured ontology. The LLM is prompted to follow the described reasoning traces
behind the scenes, without showing them to the prompt engineer, as the ReAct framework does,
to keep the iterative discussion as coherent and clear as possible.
The LLM4ACOE framework enables Prompt Engineers to select the preferred RAG components,
thereby allowing the following combinations: (a) all components enabled, meaning that the LLM is fed
with all the available types of information (i.e., domain-speciﬁc data, OWL documentation, and ReAct
guidelines), (b) two components enabled: domain-speciﬁc data and ReAct guidelines, (c) one component
enabled: ReAct guidelines, and (d) no component enabled: meaning that the LLM is without any exter-
nal data to perform the OE process (bare LLM). The aforementioned conﬁgurations of LLM4ACOE
are comparatively evaluated to study the necessity of each of the RAG components, as described in
Section 5.
4.2.2. Framework modules
In addition to the RAG technology integrated in LLM4ACOE, a number of additional modules have
been developed to support the COE process. According to the selected combination of RAG compo-
nents, the Prompt Builder module is responsible for building the prompt, following a template-driven
approach (as described in Section4.3). The Prompt Templatemodule is responsible for holding and pro-
viding the available prompt templates accordingly. Speciﬁcally, the Prompt Builder module receives the
appropriate templates from the Prompt Templates module, the retrieved documents from the Retrievers,
the input from the prompt engineer, and then it builds the prompt.
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 12]]
12 Andreas Soularidis et al.
The Chain Builder module is responsible for creating the workﬂow (chain of actions/tasks) that
is followed, based on the selected combination of RAG components. Furthermore, the Model Loader
module facilitates the selection and conﬁguration (e.g., the temperature hyperparameter) of the desired
LLM by the Prompt Engineer. Finally, the Simulation module is used to synthesize the results of the
aforementioned modules, and performs the role-playing simulation by invoking the API of the selected
LLM.
Finally, the generated responses are formatted and presented to the Prompt Engineer. It is important to
note that the LLM4ACOE framework employs a one-shoot prompting approach and is not equipped with
memory, since a human agent is not involved in the ACOE process. Consequently, the Prompt Engineer
(human agent/expert) is not able to contribute in the ACOE process, in contrast to the SimX-HCOME
OEM (Doumanas et al., 2025). Subsequently, the evaluation of the resulting ontologies by a human
agent (expert in OE) is not part of the proposed LLM4ACOE framework, and it is performed separately
using third-party tools such as Protégé. On the other hand, the LLM4ACOE implements the Ontology
Extraction module to extract the generated ontology from the LLM’s response and store it in Turtle
format. Finally, theDiscussion Extractor module is used to store the iterative discussion, including the
generated ontology, in a text ﬁle.
4.3. Prompt engineering
The initial (injected) prompt, as illustrated in Appendix A, is comprised of six sections following a
template-driven approach. These sections have been designed based on the best practices and our previ-
ous experience working with LLMs and OE (Doumanas et al., 2025). The ﬁrst section furnishes the
context, encompassing the delineation of the designated roles to the LLM, their respective respon-
sibilities and duties within the OE process, whilst oﬀering a concise description of the HCOME
OE methodology. The second section constitutes the prompt engineer input, in which the ontology
requirements aim, scope, and CQs are described. The subsequent three sections pertain to the RAG
components (one for each component) and are populated by the corresponding retrievers with data
based on the user input. Subsequently, the prompt consists of three placeholders in the form of{RAG-
data}, one for each section/retriever, where the retrieved documents are placed. It is noted that these
three sections are optional and are populated based on the selected RAG components. Finally, the last
section provides general guidelines regarding the iterative discussion and the format of the generated
ontology.
4.4. Hyperparameters conﬁguration
A crucial aspect that exerts a direct inﬂuence on the quality of the resulting ontologies pertains to the
values of certain hyperparameters. The proposed framework empowers the Prompt Engineer with a high
degree of ﬂexibility in determining the values of some hyperparameters. The ﬁrst of these concerns the
LLM temperature that controls the randomness of text generated. The temperature ranges between 0
and 1, with lower values driving the LLM to select (predict) the next word with the highest probability,
and higher values increase the likelihood of selecting less probable words.
Chunk size constitutes another signiﬁcant hyperparameter that pertains to the maximum number of
characters that a chunk should contain when splitting the external data in RAG pipeline. Increasing the
value of this parameter results in larger chunks, thereby increasing the probability of retrieving vari-
ous information via RAGs. Conversely, decreasing this value leads to the creation of more and smaller
chunks, which may result in chunks containing insuﬃcient or even misleading information.
Chunk overlap deﬁnes the number of characters that should overlap between two adjacent chunks.
Increasing the value of chunk overlap results in chunks sharing more common data, whereas smaller
values result in chunks sharing less or even no common data.
Lastly, it is important to note that the number of retrieved documents (chunks) via RAG can have a
substantial impact on the quality of the results obtained. The aforementioned hyperparameters have a
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 13]]
The Knowledge Engineering Review 13
signiﬁcant impact not only on the quality of LLM responses, but also on the total number of tokens used
(and consequently the total cost) during a prompt-response transaction.
Finally, the search type used by the retriever can also have a signiﬁcant impact on the quality of the
results obtained. At present, LLM4ACOE supports two types of searches. Speciﬁcally, the similarity
search method compels the retriever to select chunks that are most similar to the input. Conversely, the
maximal marginal relevance (MMR) method selects the most similar data while also optimizing for
diversity. The latter method utilizes the cosine similarity between the input and the embedded chunks,
while penalizing them for closeness to already selected documents (chunks).
5. Experimental setup
5.1. Description
The research presented in this paper employs a three-phase experimental approach. The ﬁrst phase is
exploratory in purpose, with the objective being to deﬁne the values of hyperparameters that generate
optimal results and to select the LLM that will be used in the second phase (main) of experiments. The
second experimental phase aims to systematically evaluate the impact of each RAG component to the
role-playing simulation in the OE process, reporting qualitative and quantitative features of the generated
ontologies. The third experimental phase is based on the ﬁndings of the second one, with the objective
of addressing the challenges that are raised in it. This is achieved by proposing diﬀerent architectures
and methods (as described in Section6.5).
To achieve this goal, the LLM-generated ontologies are compared with a human-generated (reference)
ontology tailored to SAR missions (Masa et al., 2022). To ensure that the LLM-generated ontologies
are produced based on the same requirements as the human-generated one, the Prompt Engineer input is
crafted to include the same ontology requirements, aim, score, and CQs. The methodological approach
followed in this work is guided by the following research questions (RQ) (Doumanas et al., 2024;
Doumanas et al., 2025):
RQ 1: Can LLMs automate the OE process? LLMs can generate text based on vast amounts of data,
which could enable them to automate several OE tasks. These include the generation of seed
ontological structures, suggestions of reﬁnements, and provision of real-time feedback on the
quality of the generated ontology.
RQ 2: Does the proposed multi-component RAG approach (i.e., domain-speciﬁc documents, OWL
documentation, ReAct guidelines) eﬀectively supports the generation of coherent, well-
structured, and expressive ontologies that cover suﬃciently (as judged by the human
agent/expert) the domain knowledge? This RQ tests the overall eﬃcacy of the proposed
approach.
RQ 3: Can LLMs eﬀectively process and understand large amounts of disparate data? LLMs have
shown remarkable performance in understanding and generation of text. This capability could
further enhance the OE process as the RAG components feed the LLM with a large amount of
information, for example domain-speciﬁc data, OWL axioms examples, and think-action traces.
RQ 4: Are the ontologies generated with the assistance of LLMs of comparable quality regarding
accuracy, validity, and expressiveness, to those created solely by human experts? LLMs are
trained on extensive datasets and could produce high-quality text (ontological speciﬁcations)
that meets the criteria for accurate and valid ontology elements. This RQ tests whether LLMs
can produce output that human experts deem acceptable.
RQ 5: Does human involvement remain crucial for reﬁning and validating LLM-generated ontolo-
gies, ensuring their overall quality? While LLMs can automate many tasks, they might lack the
nuanced understanding required for ﬁnal reﬁnement and validation. Human experts play a vital
role in ensuring that the ontologies are accurate, contextually appropriate, and free from errors
and omissions.
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 14]]
14 Andreas Soularidis et al.
RQ 6: Does LLM-powered role-playing simulation within the COE process improve the quality and
comprehensiveness of the engineered ontologies? Role-playing could allow agents to adopt
diﬀerent perspectives and better understand the needs and constraints of each role, leading to a
more comprehensive ontology. This approach should enhance problem-solving team abilities.
5.2. Evaluated LLMs
LLMs represent the ‘brain’ of the LLM4ACOE framework, as they are responsible for automating the
OE process through role-playing simulation. In this version of our framework, we have integrated three
of them, that is, ChatGPT4-o, Claude Sonnet, and Gemini Pro, which are commonly accepted as being
among the most powerful and widely used models. The framework utilizes the functionality provided by
LangChain to make calls to models’ APIs and retrieve the generated responses. However, it should be
noted that Prompt Engineers must provide personal credentials, that is, API keys, as well as a suﬃcient
number of available tokens, to utilize these models.
5.3. RAG components
Regarding the domain-speciﬁc data used in RAG, ten documents collected from real SAR missions
in wildﬁre incidents were used. The related documents contain information about the elements that
we aim to model in the ontology (e.g., missions, number of involved people, involved forces, type of
aﬀected area, etc.). It is noteworthy that these documents were initially collected in PDF format but were
converted to text ﬁles due to LLMs inability to process them eﬀectively (thus, a number of experiments
were conducted to solve this problem). During the development of LLM4ACOE it was observed that the
ontologies generated using these text ﬁles were richer in terms of the number of axioms that is, classes,
object properties, etc. compared to those generated using the PDF ﬁles.
5.4. Evaluation strategy
In all experimental phases, all the generated ontologies are evaluated against a human-generated SAR
ontology (reference ontology) oriented to wildﬁre incidents, using quantitative measures (i.e., precision,
recall, and f1-score) regarding both the classes and object properties. The selection of this domain (SAR)
is justiﬁed by the fact that it constitutes a dynamic domain, in which a substantial amount of data,
coming from sensors, applications, open data, etc., is generated in real-time. Therefore, the appropriate
representation of these data can further enhance the vision and the decisions taken by stakeholders. In our
previous related work with other domains (e.g., Parkinson’s disease) we have observed a general domain-
independency of LLMs performance for OE (Doumanaset al., 2025). Having said that, the focus of this
paper is not to evaluate the proposed framework against diﬀerent LLMs and diﬀerent domains, but to
evaluate the agentic role-playing simulation of COE process, enhanced with diﬀerent RAG components,
towards a fully automated ACOE process.
Moreover, we need to consider that diﬀerent ontologies model the domain knowledge diﬀerently.
For example, the knowledge: ‘An incident involves vulnerable objects ’ can be modeled as follows: (a)
‘incident’a sa class,‘ vulnerable object’a sa class, and ‘involves’a sa nobject property,o r( b )‘incident’
as a class,‘ involves’a sa data property, and the ‘vulnerable object’a sa literal. Subsequently, while we
do evaluate the presence of properties, the matches of properties between the LLM-generated and the
reference ontology are independent of whether it is an object property in the former and a data property
in the latter, or vice versa, as long as they model the same knowledge, as decided by a human (domain)
expert.
Moreover, in all experimental phases, a semantic matching approach is adopted: two concepts
from the LLM-generated and the reference ontology match if both model the same domain entities.
Furthermore, regarding object properties, for matchings to be identiﬁed, they should connect seman-
tically equivalent classes via ontology axioms (e.g., rdfs:domain, rdfs:range). Consequently, object
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 15]]
The Knowledge Engineering Review 15
Table 1. Values of hyperparameters tested in the ﬁrst
experimental phase
Hyperparameters Tested values
Temperature 0.0 0.5 1.0
Search method Similarity MMR
Chunk size 750
Chunk overlap 0
Retrieved documents 4
properties in the LLM-generated ontology that lack a connection to a class are not matched to any
of the properties, even if they are lexically equivalent to an object property of the reference ontology.
The number of CQs that the LLM-generated ontology can answer is also highlighted as a key area of
our interest. Speciﬁcally, the LLM is fed (in the prompt) with 18 CQs in natural language (English), as
these were deﬁned during the engineering of the human-generated ontology. The objective is to guide
the LLM in modelling the speciﬁc domain knowledge in a more eﬀective way. The range of CQs that an
ontology can answer reﬂects the ontology’s coverage/scope. Subsequently, to evaluate the coverage of
the generated ontologies, we report the number of CQs each ontology can answer. To do this, the CQs
are manually converted into SPARQL queries by a human expert (ontology engineer). A well-formed
SPARQL query requires the presence of all the ontological concepts involved that is, classes, object
properties, and/or data properties. Finally, the CQs answered by the generated ontologies are calculated.
It must be noted that in each experimental setup we perform independent experiments and report the
average scores.
In addition to the quantitative measurements previously outlined, the generated ontologies are also
evaluated through the lens of qualitative features. These features encompass (a) the structure (e.g., the
appropriate grouping of related classes under a generic superclass), (b) expressiveness (e.g., the uti-
lization of diﬀerent types of OWL axioms), (c) the presence of syntactical errors, (d) the reuse of
existing ontologies, and (e) ontology consistency. The evaluation is conducted by a team of human
experts (ontology engineers and domain experts) and tools (Protégé, Pellet reasoner).
5.5. First experimental phase
In the ﬁrst experimental phase, experiments are conducted using all the proposed RAG components
(i.e., domain-speciﬁc documents, OWL documentation, and ReAct guidelines). This phase constitutes
an exploration phase in which various combinations of LLMs and hyperparameters are evaluated. The
goal of this phase is to determine the LLM to be used and the values of hyperparameters that will be
utilized in the second (main) experimental phase.
The LLMs selected for this experimental phase are GPT-4o, Claude Sonnet, and Gemini Pro, which
are commonly accepted as being among the most powerful and widely used models. Regarding the hyper-
parameters, the model’s temperature values tested are 0.0, 0.5, and 1.0. Moreover, two RAG retrieval
methods are employed: (a) the similarity search, and (b) the MMR method, as outlined in Section4.4.
Regarding the model’s temperature, the selected values aim to evaluate how the model behaves under
varying degrees of randomness and creativity in its responses. Similarly, the selected retrieval methods
aim to evaluate the resulting ontologies based on the variety of the retrieved documents.
Finally, certain hyperparameters, such as the chunk size, chunk overlap, and the number of retrieved
documents, are deﬁned after thorough experimentation, also considering the type and the amount of the
available data. The values of the hyperparameters employed during this experimental phase are presented
in Table 1.
It is therefore evident that the experiments conducted in this phase are 18 in total (one for each
combination), as three LLMs, three values of temperature and two retrieval methods are employed in
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 16]]
16 Andreas Soularidis et al.
Figure 6. Experimental settings of the second experimental phase
combination. The generated ontologies are then compared with the reference ontology using the eval-
uation measures (as described in Section 5.4), and the combination of hyperparameters’ values that
produces the best results is employed in the following, main experimental phase.
5.6. Second experimental phase
In the second experimental phase, the LLM4ACOE is conﬁgured using the best combination of LLM
and hyperparameters’ values determined by the ﬁrst phase to (a) systematically evaluate the contribution
of each RAG component in the ACOE process, and (b) evaluate the LLM ability to automate the ACOE
process by simulating ACOE roles. To achieve this objective, this experimental phase consists of four
experimental settings, as illustrated in Figure6. In all settings, the same Prompt Engineer input is given
to the LLM, while the ﬁnal prompt varies based on the selected RAG components.
Particularly, in the ﬁrst experimental setting of phase 2, all the proposed RAG components are used
(i.e., SAR documents, OWL documentation, ReAct guidelines). The goal of this phase is twofold:
(a) to investigate the capability of the LLM to ‘incorporate’ in the ACOE process all the external
information, provided via RAG, enhancing the knowledge of the simulated agents participating in the
iterative discussion, (b) to evaluate the contribution of these components in the quality of the generated
ontologies.
In the second experimental setting of phase 2, the OWL documentation is removed from the RAG.
Thus, the LLM is fed with SAR documents and ReAct guidelines. The goal of this setting is to evaluate
whether or to what extent the OWL documentation that is removed from the RAG, contributes to the
quality of the generated ontologies.
Similarly, in the third experimental setting of phase 2, the SAR documents are removed from the
RAG, and the LLM is only fed with the ReAct guidelines. The goal of this setting is to evaluate the
impact of the removed domain-speciﬁc documents on the quality of the generated ontologies.
Finally, in the fourth experimental setting of phase 2, the ReAct guidelines are also removed from the
RAG, and the only input to the LLM is the prompt (including the context, the Prompt Engineer input,
and the general guidelines). The goal of this setting is twofold: (a) to evaluate the impact of the ReAct
guideline on the quality of the generated ontologies, and (b) to investigate the ability of the LLM to
generate coherent and well-structured ontologies without any further input data.
To address the issue of reproducibility and hallucination that is inherent to LLM responses, ten exper-
iments were conducted for each experimental setting and the average returned values of the measures
(precision, recall, f1-score) were calculated. Subsequently, the total number of experiments conducted
in the second phase was 40 (10 experiments× 4 experimental settings).
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 17]]
The Knowledge Engineering Review 17
6. Results
6.1. First experimental phase
The objective of the ﬁrst experimental phase is to assess LLM4ACOE conﬁgurations using all three RAG
components with various LLMs and hyperparameters’ values, as noted above. The LLMs employed in
these experiments are ChatGPT4-o, Claude Sonnet, and Gemini Pro.
In the majority of cases, Claude successfully generates well-structured classes. However, it merely
identiﬁes the fundamental ones, while leveraging the domain-speciﬁc data on a rudimentary level.
Furthermore, the resulting ontologies are characterized by the absence of fundamental object and data
properties. Moreover, in most cases, ontologies lack basic axioms such as rdfs:domain and rdfs:range,
resulting in incoherent ontologies. This is evident in the measures, as illustrated in Table2 and in more
detail in TableB3 (Appendix B), which demonstrate extremely poor performance, particularly in prop-
erties and CQs. Finally, Claude shows a weakness to reuse existing ontologies, failing to adhere to the
directives outlined by ReAct guidelines via RAG.
In contrast, Gemini generally succeeds in producing well-structured ontologies, utilizing the domain-
speciﬁc data available via RAG. The generated ontologies incorporate fundamental object and data
properties, but while they are typically well-formed and coherent, they often lack the capacity to ade-
quately model the domain’s knowledge. This deﬁciency is evident in the measures, as evidenced by
their notably poor performance, particularly in object properties and CQs. However, Gemini has been
observed to successfully reuse existing ontologies in most cases, such as theopengis7 ontology, adhering
to the directives provided by ReAct guidelines via RAG.
Finally, GPT4-o generally succeeds in producing well-structured ontologies, even if it does not fully
leverage domain-speciﬁc data. Furthermore, it exhibits high performance in object and data properties.
The generated ontologies are well-formed and coherent in most cases, successfully modeling most of
the domain’s knowledge. This is evident in measures which demonstrate high performance, particularly
in CQs. However, GPT4-o also exhibits deﬁciencies in reusing existing ontologies in accordance with
the directives provided by ReAct guidelines provided via RAG.
6.2. First experimental phase evaluation
Delving into the results of the ﬁrst experimental phase, demonstrated in Table 3, the responses of the
LLMs vary based on the model and the hyperparameter values. In most cases, the generated ontologies
are syntactically sound, with a small number of exceptions where minor errors are detected. After being
checked using the Peller reasoner of Protégé, all of them are found to be consistent.
Regarding the domain knowledge captured in resulting ontologies, ChatGPT4-o outperforms the
other LLMs, as it is able to leverage the most from the domain-speciﬁc data (i.e. SAR documents) taken
via RAG. This superiority is further substantiated by the measures, as ChatGPT4-o demonstrates the
highest performance across all categories, including the CQs answered by the LLM as it is also reported
in Table B3 (Appendix B). Furthermore, ChatGPT4-o is more proﬁcient in terms of the generation of
object and data properties, compared to Gemini and Claude that demonstrate signiﬁcant deﬁciencies.
Conversely, ChatGPT4-o and Claude Sonnet demonstrate deﬁciencies in identifying and reusing
existing ontologies, even when provided with the requisite instructions or guidelines from ReAct. This is
in contrast to Gemini Pro, which eﬀectively reuses existing ontologies. It is noteworthy that, apart from
a few cases, none of the selected LLMs have demonstrated success in enriching the generated ontologies
with owl axioms beyond the basic ones, while in cases they have achieved this, their number is limited.
Finally, regarding the capability of LLMs to simulate the ACOE process via role-playing, ChatGPT-
4o outperforms the other models, exhibiting remarkable capabilities to maintain a productive discussion
among the involved roles. Speciﬁcally, discussions are concluded by reaching a consensus, among the
simulated roles, on the coverage of the resulting ontologies. In contrast, Gemini, and Claude encounter
diﬃculties in sustaining the iterative discussion beyond one or two iterations, completing the iterative
7http://www.opengis.net/ont/swe/2.0.
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 18]]
18 Andreas Soularidis et al.
Table 2. Comparative results of ﬁrst experimental phase
Classes Object properties Properties
Average Average Average Answered
LLMs number Precision Recall F1-score number Precision Recall F1-score number Precision Recall F1-score CQs (%)
Claude 16 0.66 0.13 0.20 6 0.10 0.01 0.02 8 0.15 0.01 0.02 0.9
ChatGPT4-o 19 0.67 0.15 0.25 10 0.45 0.08 0.13 22 0.46 0.10 0.17 51.9
Gemini 19 0.44 0.11 0.17 6 0.32 0.03 0.04 11 0.43 0.04 0.08 10.2
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 19]]
The Knowledge Engineering Review 19
Table 3. Results of the ﬁrst experimental phase
Evaluation Measures
Ontology Consistency Syntactical Object Data
Ontology reusability (Pellet reasoner) errors Axioms Classes properties properties Subclasses Equivalent Disjoint
claude-0.0-750-mmr-4 No Yes Minor 40 29 6 2 19 0 0
claude-0.0-750-sim-4 No Yes No 43 19 5 0 10 0 0
claude-0.5-750-mmr-4 No Yes No 12 7 5 0 1 0 0
claude-0.5-750-sim-4 No Yes No 36 16 9 5 10 0 0
claude-1.0-750-mmr-4 No Yes No 9 5 0 0 1 0 0
claude-1.0-750-sim-4 No Yes No 38 22 9 6 16 0 0
gpt-4o-0.0-750-mmr-4 No Yes No 64 17 16 12 22 0 0
gpt-4o-0.0-750-simy-4 No Yes No 56 13 13 8 22 0 0
gpt-4o-0.5-750-mmr-4 No Yes No 114 27 15 10 12 0 0
gpt-4o-0.5-750-sim-4 No Yes No 117 22 6 18 14 1 0
gpt-4o-1.0-750-mmr-4 No Yes No 60 19 5 10 8 0 0
gpt-4o-1.0-750-sim-4 No Yes No 75 15 7 11 5 0 0
gemini-0.0-750-mmr-4 Yes Yes No 85 19 5 6 13 0 0
gemini-0.0-750-sim-4 Yes Yes No 113 28 13 12 12 2 0
gemni-0.5-750-mmr-4 Yes Yes Minor 56 24 5 0 9 0 0
gemini-0.5-750-sim-4 No Yes No 79 24 8 3 12 0 0
gemini-1.0-750-mmr-4 Yes Yes No 19 7 1 1 2 0 1
gemini-1.0-750-sim-4 No Yes No 47 9 2 10 5 0 0
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 20]]
20 Andreas Soularidis et al.
discussion with sentences such as ‘Conversation continues... ’, ‘The ontology development process con-
tinues iteratively... ’, or even the discussion stops unexpectedly. Therefore, Gemini and Claude engineer
ontologies that fail to adequately capture the domain knowledge. This deﬁciency is further highlighted
by the scores reported.
In terms of the search method employed by RAG, two options are evaluated, with the similarity
search demonstrating superiority over the MMR in all reported measures, including CQs, as shown in
Table B1 (Appendix B). Conversely, the MMR ensures the diversity of the selected documents, thereby
enhancing the overall COE process by providing a more diverse range of information to LLM. Regarding
LLMs temperature, as demonstrated in Table B2 (Appendix B), the value of 0.0 produces the optimal
results in all measures except for the CQs, where the value of 0.5 yields the best results. However,
it is important to note that the temperature value of 0.5 allows the model to deviate from standard
responses, thereby enabling the incorporation of further information either from RAG or from inherent
knowledge.
Finally, taking into account the combinations of LLMs and hyperparameters, as it is evidenced in
TableB3 (Appendix B) that ChatGPT4-o with a temperature value of 0.5 and the MMR retrieval method
support/enhance the role-playing agents to generate the best ontology regarding coverage, structure and
coherence, reporting superior performance in nearly all measures, including the CQs, where it achieves
the highest level of performance, answering 14 out of 18 questions (approximately 78%). Consequently,
ChatGPT4-o, with a temperature value of 0.5 and the MMR retrieval method, is selected to be the
LLM4ACOE conﬁguration for the second (and main) experimental phase.
6.3. Second experimental phase
The objective of the second experimental phase is twofold: (a) to systematically evaluate the contribution
of each RAG component to the LLM-based ACOE process, and (b) to evaluate the LLM ability to auto-
mate the ACOE process by simulating role-playing. To strengthen the conclusions drawn, ten iterations
were conducted for each experimental setting and the average measures (precision, recall, f1-score) are
reported in this section.
6.3.1. First experimental setting of second experimental phase
The results, summarized in Table4 and presented in TableC2 (Appendix C) in more detail, demonstrate
the eﬃcacy of the proposed RAG components since the generated ontologies in most cases manage to
capture the basic domain knowledge (that is evident by the CQs measures obtained). This fact contrasts
with the low number of axioms (classes, object properties, etc.) the ontologies contain, as the LLM
agents in most cases manage to identify only a small portion of them compared to the reference ontology.
This is explained by the fact that the basic ontology axioms (i.e., classes, object/data properties) are
related to more than one CQ, while the rest of them, which the LLM agents typically fail to incorporate
into the engineered ontologies, are related in fewer or even none of the CQs. Finally, this approach
generates the most comprehensive ontology regarding the CQs, answering 14 out of 18 CQs.
However, the LLM demonstrates a deﬁciency in fully exploiting the provided (via RAG compo-
nents) information, especially the domain-speciﬁc information, as can be observed by the total number
of classes returned. In contrast, ReAct guidelines appear to ‘steer’ the LLM-simulated Knowledge
Engineer agent (from the generated discussions, it is clear that the LLM-simulated agents don’t
mix their roles, so we can attribute them with speciﬁc capacities) into the correct direction of fol-
lowing the COE process. This is illustrated by the fact that, in half the cases, the LLM attempts
to import existing ontologies, as shown in Table C1 (Appendix C). However, in all cases, the
imported ontologies are not correctly identiﬁed, as the ‘misled’ agent is trying to import the ontol-
ogy from http://example.org/otherOntologies/weather.owl(which constitutes an import example taken
from the OWL documentation). On the other hand, in most cases the generated ontologies are well-
structured, as the LLM successfully groups relevant classes under a common superclass. Finally, in three
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 21]]
The Knowledge Engineering Review 21
Table 4. Average, SD, and median measures of the ﬁrst experimental setting
Classes Object properties Properties
Total Total Total Answered
Measures number Precision Recall F1-score number Precision Recall F1-score number Precision Recall F1-score CQs (%)
Average 19.4 0.65 0.16 0.25 10.7 0.41 0.07 0.11 19.5 0.16 0.02 0.04 55
Standard
Deviation
7.2 0.06 0.05 0.05 5.25 0.16 0.04 0.07 5.30 0.56 0.11 0.18 15
Median 16.0 0.68 0.14 0.23 9.5 0.42 0.07 0.12 19 0.16 0.02 0.04 58
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 22]]
22 Andreas Soularidis et al.
cases, the LLM manages to incorporate ontology axioms beyond the basic/simple ones, for instance,
owl:inverseOf, increasing the expressiveness of the generated ontologies.
6.3.2. Second experimental setting of second experimental phase
In the second experimental setting, the OWL documentation is removed from the RAG components, thus
the prompt is comprised of the following parts: (a) the context, (b) user input, (c) chunks of domain-
speciﬁc documents, (d) chunks of ReAct guidelines, and (f) general guidelines. The goal of this setting
is to evaluate (by its absence of as a RAG component) the contribution of OWL documentation to the
quality of the generated ontologies.
As can be observed in TableC3 (Appendix C), none of the ontologies generated in this setting import
other ontologies (not even the experimental ontology, which is imported in some cases in the 1st exper-
imental setting). This is true even though LLM is being fed with this guideline described in ReAct.
In terms of ontology structure, approximately half of the ontologies are well-structured, with a signif-
icant number of owl:subclassOf axioms used to group classes under a relevant superclass. However,
there are instances where a common superclass should be applied to a set of related concepts, but the
LLM-simulated Knowledge Engineer agent shows a deﬁciency in identifying these relationships. In
the remaining experiments, the LLM fails to correctly organize the classes, indicating suboptimal per-
formance in this ﬁeld. In the context of expressivity, only three ontologies make use of axioms beyond
simple ones, limited tordfs:label and rdfs:comment, which are used to describe the ontological concepts.
This behavior signiﬁes the beneﬁcial impact of OWL documentation on the generation of expressive
ontologies.
Regarding the ontology coverage, as depicted in Table5 and in more detail in TableC4 (Appendix C),
the LLM-simulated agents (Domain Expert, Knowledge Worker) show a remarkable performance in
class generation. Subsequently, this approach generates ontologies enriched with a plethora of classes,
while there are cases in which necessary classes for SAR missions, such as the RescueMission,a r e
present in LLM-generated ontologies but not in the reference ontology. Similar behavior is illustrated
for properties, as this approach generates most of them compared to the other experimental settings.
It is important to note that in this setting, instances of double properties are observed. For example, a
property exists as both an object property and a data property within the same ontology. Furthermore,
in these instances, it has been observed that both properties lack either a rdfs:domain or rdfs:range
axioms. Finally, regarding the CQs, even if this approach achieves the highest f1-score in classes and
object properties measures (as illustrated in Table8), the generated ontologies fail to answer the majority
of the CQs, achieving performance below 50%. This can be explained since the domain-speciﬁc data
constitutes a further source of information, coming from real-world scenarios, which were not used
during the engineering of reference ontology. Therefore, the resulting ontologies capture and represent
domain knowledge that were not represented in the reference ontology, and vice-versa.
6.3.3. Third experimental setting of second experimental phase
In the third experimental setting, the domain-speciﬁc documents are removed from RAG compo-
nents, resulting only to one RAG component present in the experimentation setting, that is, the ReAct
guidelines. The prompt consists of the following parts: (a) the context, (b) user input, (c) chunks of
ReAct guidelines, and (d) general guidelines. The goal of this setting is to evaluate the contribu-
tion of domain-speciﬁc information and OWL-speciﬁc documentation in the quality of the generated
ontologies.
Similarly to the second experimental setting, as reported in Table C5 (Appendix C), none of the
generated ontologies import other (external) ontologies, even if the agents are being fed with ReAct
guidelines. When it comes to the structure of the ontologies, the LLM agents usually produce well-
structured ontologies grouping related classes under a relevant and more abstract superclass. In terms
of expressivity, the generated ontologies are pretty basic as the agents do not further enrich them with
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 23]]
The Knowledge Engineering Review 23
Table 5. Average, SD and median measures of the second experimental setting
Classes Object properties Properties
Total Total Total Answered
Measures number Precision Recall F1-score number Precision Recall F1-score number Precision Recall F1-score CQs (%)
Average 34.8 0.19 0.07 0.04 18.3 0.42 0.11 0.16 26.8 0.43 0.10 0.16 43
Standard
Deviation
18.14 0.51 0.20 0.30 10.82 0.21 0.05 0.07 9.69 0.18 0.04 0.06 19
Median 29.5 0.19 0.07 0.04 14 0.37 0.11 0.16 26 0.47 0.10 0.17 42
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 24]]
24 Andreas Soularidis et al.
OWL axioms. This ﬁnding can be justiﬁed by the lack of relevant instructions provided via ReAct to
LLM in all iterations as evidenced by the retrieved documents, available to Prompt Engineer through
LangSmith. The only axioms present in ontologies, beyond the basic ones, are the rdfs:comment and
rdfs:label, that exist only in three of them.
When it comes to the number of identiﬁed classes, the absence of domain-speciﬁc information has a
negative impact on the number of classes the ontologies contain, as evidenced in Table6 and in TableC6
(Appendix C). Consequently, in most cases, the LLM agents identify only the classes outlined in the
prompt. The sparsity of classes has a detrimental eﬀect on the number of properties identiﬁed by the
LLM agents, resulting in suboptimal performance. However, the generated ontologies achieve a satisfac-
tory performance by answering approximately half of the queries, thus ranking second among the other
approaches. This is because the LLM agents identify the very basic elements/terms of most CQs, while
failing to enrich the ontologies with knowledge that should be present in SAR ontology, as happens in
the second experimental setting.
6.3.4. Fourth experimental setting of second experimental phase
In this setting, the ReAct guidelines are removed, leaving the LLM agents without any external data,
beyond the prompt, to perform the COE process towards the development of a SAR ontology. The goal
of this setting is twofold: (a) to evaluate the contribution of the ReAct guidelines in the quality of the
generated ontologies and (b) to evaluate the ability of LLM to automatically generate well-structured,
expressive and coherent ontologies that capture the knowledge around the SAR missions in wildﬁre
incidents, without further external data, through the role-playing simulation.
Once more, as depicted in Table C7 (Appendix C) none of the generated ontologies reuse existing
ones, and they perform similarly to the second and third experimental settings. Regarding the struc-
ture, the LLM agents demonstrate a deﬁciency in generating well-structured ontologies, as they fail to
group related classes under an abstract superclass. This behavior demonstrates the positive impact of
ReAct guidelines on the ACOE process, as it enhances the knowledge of the Knowledge Engineer with
thought-action-observation guidelines about COE tasks. Additionally, the generated ontologies exhibit a
limited degree of expressivity, as evidenced by the absence of OWL axioms such asowl:equivalentWith,
owl:disjointWith(and others) in the generated ontologies. This ﬁnding is indicative of the positive impact
of both OWL documentation and ReAct guidelines on the generation of expressive and well-structured
ontologies, as they enhance the knowledge of Knowledge Engineer agent with OWL axioms.
As far as the number of identiﬁed classes is concerned, the absence of domain data demonstrates a
negative impact on the number of classes contained within the engineered ontologies as illustrated in
Table 7 and Table C8, (Appendix C). Consequently, in most cases, the LLM agents identify only the
classes outlined in the prompt. A similar trend is observed in the number of properties contained within
the ontologies. Furthermore, in one instance, the identiﬁed properties are unrelated to any ontology
concept. These weaknesses are also reﬂected in the CQs, as the resulting ontologies fail to answer most
of them, reporting the worst performance among all experimental settings, as illustrated in Table8.
6.4. Results analysis: pros and cons
The results, as depicted in Table 8, demonstrate the eﬀectiveness of the proposed approach, as the
RAG components improve the performance of LLM agents in generating more expressive, coherent and
complete ontologies, as compared to the agents simulated in the bare LLM conﬁguration. In terms of
structure, the combination of OWL documentation and ReAct guidelines ensures well-structured ontolo-
gies in most cases, while the SAR documents enrich them with domain data and concepts. At the same
time, the domain data guides the Domain Expert and Knowledge Worker agents to further enrich the pro-
duced ontologies with concepts coming from the datasets. As can be observed from the results, reducing
the number of RAG components has a negative impact on the quality of the generated ontologies. The
only exception is observed in the number of classes in the second experimental setting of the second
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 25]]
The Knowledge Engineering Review 25
Table 6. Average, SD and median measures of the third experimental setting
Classes Object properties Properties
Total Total Total Answered
Measures number Precision Recall F1-score number Precision Recall F1-score number Precision Recall F1-score CQs (%)
Average 16 0.66 0.13 0.21 8.3 0.40 0.07 0.11 19.4 0.58 0.11 0.18 50
Standard
Deviation
5.85 0.13 0.05 0.07 5.39 0.20 0.06 0.09 4.39 0.06 0.03 0.04 11
Median 16.5 0.68 0.14 0.23 6.5 0.37 0.04 0.07 18.5 0.58 0.10 0.18 50
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 26]]
26 Andreas Soularidis et al.
Table 7. Average, SD and median measures of the fourth experimental setting
Classes Object properties Properties
Total Total Total Answered
Measures number Precision Recall F1-score number Precision Recall F1-score number Precision Recall F1-score CQs (%)
Average 14 0.75 0.13 0.22 9.9 0.42 0.07 0.12 19.3 0.50 0.10 0.16 39
Standard
deviation
3.13 0.05 0.03 0.04 4.53 0.24 0.05 0.08 4.29 0.23 0.04 0.07 20
Median 14 0.72 0.13 0.22 8.5 0.42 0.08 0.13 19.5 0.54 0.10 0.17 36
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 27]]
The Knowledge Engineering Review 27
Table 8. Comparative average measures among experimental settings
Classes Object properties Properties
Average Average Average Answered
Measures number Precision Recall F1-score number Precision Recall F1-score number Precision Recall F1-score CQs (%)
Exp.
Setting 1
19 0.65 0.16 0.25 11 0.41 0.07 0.11 20 0.56 0.10 0.17 55
Exp.
Setting 2
35 0.60 0.23 0.31 18 0.42 0.11 0.16 27 0.43 0.10 0.16 43
Exp.
Setting 3
16 0.66 0.13 0.21 8 0.39 0.05 0.09 19 0.58 0.11 0.18 50
Exp.
Setting 4
14 0.75 0.13 0.22 10 0.42 0.07 0.12 19 0.50 0.10 0.16 39
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 28]]
28 Andreas Soularidis et al.
experimental phase, which increases drastically after the removal of the OWL documentation. Another
weakness of the approach observed, which is independent of the number of RAG components involved,
is the relatively poor performance of the LLM agents in generating object and/or data properties. This
deﬁciency has a signiﬁcant impact not only on the quality of the generated ontologies, as they lack
coherence, but also on the eﬀective representation of the domain knowledge in general. Furthermore, it
is demonstrated that an increase in the classes and properties generated does not necessarily result in an
increase in the number of CQs that can be answered. This is due to the presence of entities for example,
classes and properties, in multiple CQs. The absence of these entities in the generated ontologies has a
greater impact than the presence of entities that only appear in a single CQ. Another justiﬁcation for this
observation is the existence of entities that are not present in the reference ontology. Finally, it is notable
that the experimental setting integrating all the proposed RAG components (ﬁrst experimental setting) is
the only one that imports and reuses ontologies, even if these ontologies are not real (dummy/imaginary
examples), and serve merely as illustrative examples in the OWL documentation.
As demonstrated by the obtained results, each RAG component contributes to the ACOE process
in a unique way, enhancing the existing knowledge of the simulated agents derived from the LLM’s
training data. The combination of all RAG components achieves the best results in terms of the selected
evaluation measures, especially for the CQs, while also it outperforms the rest combinations in terms of
expressivity and structure. Therefore, the ﬁrst experimental setting not only produces the best ontology,
in terms of the number of CQs answered, but also achieves the highest score in general.
However, this approach is also subject to certain limitations that aﬀect the quality of the resulting
ontologies. Some of these limitations are due to the quality of the data, such as domain-irrelevant exam-
ples that are present in the OWL documentation, and others are related to the ability of the LLM to
eﬀectively process and understand large amounts of diverse data. As the results demonstrate, in the ﬁrst
experimental setting of the seconds experimental phase, the LLM encounters challenges in extracting
concepts from SAR documents due to the increased size of the prompt. Conversely, it demonstrates
notable performance in this domain in the second experimental setting, where the prompt is more con-
cise due to the absence of the OWL documentation. Furthermore, the OWL documentation feeds the
LLM agents with information that is unrelated to the domain, thereby introducing noise with respect to
the domain, which, in certain instances, has a detrimental eﬀect on the quality of the generated ontolo-
gies. The most interesting side-eﬀect is the reuse of an unreal ontology, as demonstrated in the ﬁrst
experimental setting. Furthermore, there are cases in which the generated ontologies contain irrelevant
domain classes, such as Father, Son, Daughter, which are also present in the OWL documentation as
examples of OWL axiom usage. Of course, such dummy/educational examples of OWL axioms may
be removed from the OWL documentation prior to its use in the RAG components of the proposed
approach.
6.5. Third experimental phase
As previously stated, to address the challenges raised, a third phase of experimentation is carried out.
In this phase, two more experiments are conducted using all the proposed RAG components, following
diﬀerent architectures and methods. To enhance the generated results ﬁve iterations of experiment are
conducted.
6.5.1. Augmentation of domain-speciﬁc data
In the ﬁrst experiment, the objective is to tackle the challenge of restricted domain knowledge derived
from domain-speciﬁc data via RAG, in the generated ontologies, as demonstrated in the ﬁrst experimen-
tal setting of the second phase. Towards this direction, the chunk size of the SAR documents is doubled
in comparison to the other RAG components, providing the LLM with a more substantial amount of
domain-speciﬁc data.
As illustrated in Table9, and in more detail in TableD1 (Appendix D), the outcomes of this approach
do not align with the anticipated results. In most experiments, the number of classes in the resulting
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 29]]
The Knowledge Engineering Review 29
Table 9. Average, SD and median measures of augmentation of domain-speciﬁc data
Classes Object properties Properties
Total Total Total Answered
Measures number Precision Recall F1-score number Precision Recall F1-score number Precision Recall F1-score CQs (%)
Average 40 0,57 0,21 0,28 13,2 0,36 0,08 0,13 27 0,42 0,10 0,16 33
Standard
Deviation
35,1 0,20 0,06 0,02 2,79 0,17 0,04 0,06 11,75 0,15 0,03 0,05 12
Median 24 0,54 0,18 0,27 14 0,43 0,08 0,14 23 0,47 0,10 0,13 39
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 30]]
30 Andreas Soularidis et al.
Figure 7. Sequential Approach
ontologies remains consistent with the ﬁrst experimental setting. However, an exception to this obser-
vation is noted in the ﬁnal experiment, where the resulting ontology consists of 110 classes (the higher
number observed in the experimental results), a signiﬁcantly higher number compared to the human-
generated ontology, outperforming all the experiments to this point. A similar behavior is observed in
object and data properties, as their number does not increase dramatically, demonstrating similar per-
formance with the second experimental phase. The observations are further substantiated by metrics of
CQs, which demonstrate the poorest observed performance (as illustrated in Table10).
As has already been discussed, it is evident that LLM agents demonstrate a weakness to reuse
existing ontologies across the ﬁve experiments via RAG, as also depicted in Table D2 (Appendix D),
despite the provision of ReAct guidelines. Conversely, the generated ontologies in most cases are well-
structured, as the LLM agents manage to group them appropriately when necessary, using the related
OWL axioms, as described in OWL documentation and ReAct guidelines. However, the generated
ontologies exhibit a deﬁciency in expressivity, as none of them are enriched with related OWL axioms,
beyond the basic/simple ones. The only exception is observed in two ontologies, where the ﬁrst uses
two owl:inverseOf axioms, while the latter uses rdfs:label and rdfs:comment axioms to describe the
ontology concepts.
6.5.2. Sequential approach
In the second experiment, having recognized the deﬁciency of the LLM to eﬀectively process and under-
stand large amounts of heterogeneous data, a new approach is adopted. In contrast to the preceding
experiments, in which the whole process is performed in parallel, that is the prompt consists of data
from all RAG components and the LLM agents exploit these at the same time, in this experiment the
COE process follows a sequential approach, in which one RAG component contributes to the ACOE pro-
cess at a time, enhancing the information provided to the LLM agents, following a pipeline approach,
as depicted in Figure 7. The objective of this approach is to fully leverage the additional information
towards the development of more expressive, coherent, and well-structured ontologies that capture the
domain knowledge demonstrating a high degree of coverage.
In this three-step approach, the initial step involves the retrieval of domain-speciﬁc data (SAR doc-
uments) and its subsequent provision to the LLM, expanding the knowledge of the Domain Expert and
the Knowledge Worker simulated agents. The prompt is comprised of the following components: (a)
the context, (b) user input, (c) chunks of domain-speciﬁc data, and (d) general guidelines. The initial
version of the ontology is then created. In the subsequent step, the OWL documentation RAG compo-
nent is employed, enriching the inherent knowledge of Knowledge Engineer and Knowledge Worker,
to reconstruct and enrich the generated ontology with owl axioms. The prompt comprises the follow-
ing components: (a) the context, (b) the generated ontology, (c) chunks of OWL documentation, and
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 31]]
The Knowledge Engineering Review 31
(d) general guidelines. Finally, in the third step, the ReAct component is used, enhancing the inherent
knowledge of Knowledge Engineer, to further reﬁne the resulted ontology.
Regarding the simulation of roles, in the initial step the three simulated agents are asked to perform
an iterative discussion aiming to engineer an ontology with great coverage that captures the most of
the domain knowledge leveraging both the domain knowledge of LLMs and the domain-speciﬁc infor-
mation that is available via RAG. In the second step, the simulated roles are prompted to restructure
the ontology engineered in the ﬁrst step, enhancing its expressivity by enriching it with OWL axioms,
as described in OWL documentation that is available via RAG. Finally, in the third step, the goal of
simulated roles is twofold, (a) to further reﬁne the ontology, engineered in the second phase, leveraging
the ReAct guidelines available via RAG and (b) to act as a ‘ﬁlter’, removing irrelevant concepts that is,
classes and/or properties that may exist in the engineered ontology due to the noise inherent to OWL
documentation.
As illustrated in Table10, and in more detail in TableD3 (Appendix D), the sequential approach out-
performs the rest approaches, demonstrating a remarkable performance as regards the class generation,
fully exploiting the domain-speciﬁc data, coming from the SAR documents via RAG. A similar pattern
is also observed in the domain of properties, as the number of object properties are increased by 33%
on average compared to the second-best performance achieved in the second experimental setting, as
illustrated in Table10. These outcomes are also reﬂected in the measures, achieving the highest scores
in all of them. Especially for the CQs, the ontologies engineered by the proposed sequential approach,
manage to answer at least half of them in all the experiments.
Similarly to the rest of the experiments, except from the ﬁrst experimental setting, the LLM agents
fails to reuse existing ontologies in the produced ontologies, as illustrated in Table D4 (Appendix D),
showing a deﬁciency in executing the guidelines taken by the ReAct via RAG. Conversely, this approach
consistently generates well-structured ontologies, largely due to the incorporation of an appropriate
number of owl:subclassOf axioms as needed, following the ReAct guidelines eﬀectively. Furthermore,
the generated ontologies are enriched with additional owl axioms, including owl:equivalentTo and
owl:inverseOfObjectProperty, thereby enhancing their robustness.
7. Overall discussion and limitations of the approach
The results reported in Table 10 demonstrate the eﬃcacy of the proposed RAG-based approach in the
COE process. The additional information provided to LLMs via RAG components extends the knowl-
edge of the simulated agents, while it further guides them in generating coherent and well-structured
ontologies. These ontologies are not capable of capturing domain-knowledge at an acceptable level,
given also that no human intervention beyond the initial input deﬁning the requirements, aim, scope and
CQs of the ontology is supported.
The limitations that are due to the capacities of LLM agents and the information provided via RAG
components can have a detrimental eﬀect on the quality of the resulting ontologies. To address the chal-
lenges raised during the second experimental phase, an additional experiments was conducted using a
‘curriculum’-based approach and framework architecture, where information is provided to LLM agents
gradually, following an ontology reﬁnement approach according to OE methodological guidelines.
As demonstrated in Table10, the augmentation of the chunk size for SAR documents does not have
a substantial eﬀect on the quality of the generated ontologies, as the resulting ontologies demonstrate
a lack of domain knowledge, as evidenced by the scores of CQs, reporting the poorest performance.
Furthermore, except for a single case, this approach does not exert a substantial inﬂuence on the number
of classes generated, exhibiting also a deﬁciency in expressivity as lack further OWL axioms beyond the
basic ones. This observation lends further support to the hypothesis that the LLM exhibits deﬁciencies
in processing and comprehending voluminous and disparate data.
Conversely the sequential approach adopted in the third experimental phase facilitates the agents to
generate ontologies that are more coherent, and well-structured, while performing better on CQs, achiev-
ing the highest scores. Regarding the expressivity of the resulting ontologies, the sequential approach
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 32]]
32 Andreas Soularidis et al.
Table 10. Comparative average measures among all experimental approaches
Classes Object properties Properties
Total Average Average Answered
Measures number Precision Recall F1-score number Precision Recall F1-score number Precision Recall F1-score CQs (%)
Exp.
Setting 1
19 0.65 0.16 0.25 11 0.41 0.07 0.11 20 0.56 0.10 0.17 55
Exp.
Setting 2
35 0.60 0.23 0.31 18 0.42 0.11 0.16 27 0.43 0.10 0.16 43
Exp.
Setting 3
16 0.66 0.13 0.21 8 0.39 0.05 0.09 19 0.58 0.11 0.18 50
Exp.
Setting 4
14 0.75 0.13 0.22 10 0.42 0.07 0.12 19 0.50 0.10 0.16 39
Doubled
chunk
40 0.57 0.21 0.28 11 0.36 0.08 0.13 27 0.42 0.10 0.16 33
Sequential 44 0.44 0.24 0.31 27 0.42 0.16 0.22 44 0.33 0.14 0.19 59
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 33]]
The Knowledge Engineering Review 33
demonstrates a similar behavior compared to the ﬁrst experimental setting, in which all the proposed
RAG components are used at the same time. Moreover, the agents have demonstrated a capacity to iden-
tify and incorporate a greater number of classes into the resulting ontologies, thereby fully leveraging
the domain-speciﬁc data provided by the RAG components. Furthermore, the generated ontologies are
well-structured in most experimental case’s, as the agents demonstrates a noteworthy capacity to, not
only capture the requisite domain knowledge beyond the fundamental one, but also to to structure it
correctly. A similar behavior is also observed in the case of properties’ generation, as the sequential
approach outperforms the rest of the approaches in generating coherent ontologies. The eﬃcacy of this
approach is further substantiated by measures, which consistently report the most favorable outcomes,
eclipsing all competing approaches.
A key ﬁnding of this research is the deﬁciency of the LLM (in this paper, the ChatGPT4-o) to
fully exploit large amounts of disparate data targeting diﬀerent abilities, concurrently. This weakness
is observed during the ﬁrst experimental setting of the second experimental phase, in which even if the
agents are provided with additional information leveraging the three proposed components, they show
a deﬁciency in producing ontologies that capture the domain-knowledge at an acceptable level, gener-
ating ontologies with a small number of elements (i.e., classes and object/data properties). A similar
pattern is also observed in the third experimental phase, where the domain-speciﬁc data are augmented,
showing a deﬁciency not only in the representation of the domain knowledge in an acceptable way, but
also in the expressivity and quality of the generated ontologies in general. Conversely, the sequential
approach generates better results across all measures, surpassing all other approaches. This approach
underscores the distinct contributions of each proposed RAG component. In particular, it is evident that
the use of domain-speciﬁc data assists LLMs in developing ontologies with increased domain knowledge
and greater coverage, thereby addressing the limited domain knowledge observed in some domains, for
example, the SAR domain as demonstrated in other works (Doumanaset al., 2025).
In relation to the OWL documentation, it is evident that it serves as an additional guideline for the
LLM’s performance, since employing examples of OWL axioms enhances the expressivity of the result-
ing ontologies. The experimental ﬁndings demonstrate that the ontologies generated with this RAG
component exhibit a higher level of expressivity compared to those generated without it. However, it is
important to note that the presence of irrelevant data in the examples may mislead the RAG-enhanced
LLM. This phenomenon is also evident in the initial exploration experiments, where the values of certain
hyperparameters are being investigated. It is observed that an increased chunk size results in ontologies
that are aﬄicted by the presence of irrelevant concepts. The reduction of the chunk size to 750 words
has been demonstrated to be an eﬀective strategy in addressing this challenge, thereby minimizing the
number of irrelevant concepts obtained from OWL documentation.
Finally, the ReAct approach can assist the agents in ‘thinking’ and ‘acting’ in their role-playing abil-
ities, facilitating the generation of expressive and well-structured ontologies. However, as evidenced by
the retained results, ChatGPT4-o exhibits deﬁciencies in fully adhering to these guidelines, as it lacks
the capability to discover (in the Web) and reuse existing ontologies. In contrast, Gemini demonstrates a
capability to identify and reuse related ontologies, as evidenced in the initial experimental phase, thereby
outperforming other LLMs in this ﬁeld.
Concerning the LLM-powered role-playing simulation, it is noteworthy that the LLM (ChatGPT-
4o), is capable of keeping an iterative and productive discussion among the agents for the engineering of
acceptable ontologies outperforming the Claude Sonnet and Gemini Pro. Moreover, the enhancement of
agents with additional information (i.e., domain-speciﬁc data, OWL documentation, ReAct guidelines)
facilitate the development of acceptable ontologies, especially in the sequential conﬁguration, regarding
the accuracy, validity, coverage, and expressiveness. However, the results also indicate that the roles
(agents), are not disjointed, using the same information provided via RAG. Subsequently, the agents fail
to adopt diﬀerent perspectives and better understand the needs and constraints of each role. The reuse
of non-existing ontologies and the incorporation of irrelevant domain classes are illustrative examples
that substantiate this claim. In the presence of fully disjoint agents, the incorporation of these irrelevant
and erroneous imports would be prevented. The results demonstrate that the proposed LLM4ACOE
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 34]]
34 Andreas Soularidis et al.
framework, especially the sequential conﬁguration of it, has the capacity to automate the ACOE process
by facilitating the ontology development surpassing the inherent limitations of conventional approaches,
producing in most cases acceptable ontologies, that capture at least the basic domain knowledge, and
consequently deliver expressive and well-structured ontologies. However, as demonstrated by the results,
the LLM responses (i.e., generated ontologies) are not always consistent among iterations, while in
some cases fail to represent all the necessary knowledge or even incorporate irrelevant or misleading
knowledge.
It must be noted that the engineering of incoherent and inconsistent ontologies or even the existence
of syntactical errors or bias, can have severe consequences. Therefore, considering the criticality of some
domains, such as the one encountered in this study, human involvement remains crucial for reﬁning and
validating the LLM-generated ontologies during their engineering (not only at the end), ensuring their
overall quality. Human experts still play a signiﬁcant role in ensuring that the ontologies delivered for
their integration in applications and systems are accurate, contextually appropriate, and free of biases,
errors and omissions. This conclusion is fully consistent with the experimental results/conclusions of our
previous research work, namely SimX-HCOME (Doumanaset al., 2025), in which the synergy between
Machine (LLM)-Human towards the COE reports similar results/measures.
8. Conclusion
The work presented in this paper extends the Sim-HCOME OE methodology by incorporating additional
knowledge to COE simulated agents via the LLM4ACOE framework, integrating three RAG compo-
nents. Towards this direction, an LLM-based and RAG-enhanced framework is implemented with the
aim to evaluate the automation of the engineering domain-speciﬁc ontologies via role-playing simula-
tion. The experiments presented in this paper highlight the eﬃcacy of the proposed RAG components
in the proposed ACOE process, generating coherent, robust, and well-structured ontologies that capture
further domain knowledge, tackling the problem of incomplete domain knowledge that is inherent to
the LLMs. The results highlight the ability of the proposed approach, especially the sequential one, to
eﬀectively automate the ACOE process, through role-playing simulation, surpassing most of limitations
inherent to the LLMs.
The experimental results answer to the research questions (RQ) deﬁned at Section 5.1, as follows:
They demonstrate the capacity of LLMs (ChatGPT4o in this case) to automate the COE process through
role-playing simulation, engineering in some cases acceptable ontologies by human experts/agents
(RQ1). Moreover, the proposed RAG components enhance the LLM agents with additional knowledge
supporting/facilitating the engineering of coherent, well-structured, and expressive ontologies that cover
the domain knowledge adequately in most cases (RQ2). The results obtained demonstrate a close cor-
relation between the quality of the engineered ontologies and the quality of the external information
available to the simulated roles (LLM agents) via RAG. The inclusion of irrelevant concepts in exter-
nal information results in the introduction of noise into the engineered ontologies. Furthermore, the
results demonstrate the deﬁciency of the LLM (ChatGPT4o) to fully exploit the diverse information pro-
vided via RAG (RQ3). The additional experiments that were conducted, augmenting the domain-speciﬁc
documents, validate the aforementioned claim as the generated ontologies demonstrated a detrimental
quality. On the other hand, the sequential approach followed, in which one RAG component contributes
to the ACOE process each time, resulted in acceptable ontologies concerning accuracy, validity, cover-
age and expressiveness (RQ4). However, taking into account the inconsistent responses of LLM amongst
iterations, the failure to represent all the necessary knowledge, and the inclusion of irrelevant or mis-
leading knowledge, it is concluded that human involvement remains crucial for reﬁning and validating
LLM-generated results (ontologies in our case), ensuring their overall quality (RQ5). The integration
of LLM-powered role-playing simulation into the COE process generally improves the quality of the
engineered ontologies. However, the experimental results also indicate that the roles (agents) are not
disjointed using the same information provided via RAG. As a result, the agents fail to adopt diﬀerent
perspectives and better understand the needs and constraints of each role (RQ6).
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 35]]
The Knowledge Engineering Review 35
Future work includes further experimentation with the proposed sequential approach, evaluating
diﬀerent architectures regarding the sequence of the proposed RAG components. In addition, further
experimentation is planned with distinguished agents using disjoint instances of LLMs and RAG that
are capable of using tools tailored to OE tasks such as searching the Web for relevant ontologies (to inte-
grate them with those engineered by the LLM), performing validation checks (syntax, consistency), etc.
Finally, the integration and evaluation of GraphRAG as well as a ﬁne-tuning LLM tailored to engineer
ontologies are left for future work, as both have the potential to further enhance the proposed ACOE
process.
Appendix A
In this section the prompt templates used to conduct the experiments and produce the results, are
presented.
Prompt Example using the parallel approach:
Create three instances of yourself playing three diﬀerent roles in the ontology engineering process based
on the HCOME collaborative ontology engineering methodology. The three roles are the knowledge
engineer, the domain expert and the knowledge worker. These three roles work together to create an
ontology. The Knowledge Engineer is responsible for the requirements speciﬁcation, conceptualization
and generation of the ontology. The Domain Expert is an experienced person and provides the require-
ments for the ontology, terminology, deﬁnitions of terms, domain speciﬁc explanations of terms and his
experience in general. The Knowledge Worker is the user of the ontology and actively participates in the
ontology engineering process. The above roles should express their deep knowledge during the conver-
sation. Their aim is to play all three roles, simulating the HCOME methodology. The above mentioned
roles will interact with each other, asking and answering questions until a valid and comprehensive
ontology is created, which covers all the deﬁned requirements below.
The aim of the ontology to be created is to model all the necessary concepts and their relationships
for Search and Rescue (SAR) missions. The scope of the ontology is wildﬁre incidents. The gener-
ated ontology should be able to capture, link and semantically integrate heterogeneous data, regarding
the environment in which the mission takes place, collected from diﬀerent resources such as sensors,
social media (from users in the nearby area), and input from ﬁrst responders, in order to provide deci-
sion support services to the crisis management centre. Therefore, the generated ontology should have
a deep scope, encompassing a wide range of domain knowledge relevant to forest ﬁre emergencies.
The key knowledge that must be represented in your ontology includes (A) Incidents and Impacts: The
ontology must capture relevant incidents and impacts in a wildﬁre disaster. This knowledge is crucial
for understanding the extent and severity of wildﬁre and its consequences. (B) Weather Conditions:
Representation of weather conditions, including temperature, wind speed, humidity, and weather fore-
casts, is essential for understanding the environmental factors inﬂuencing the behavior of wildﬁre. This
knowledge helps in assessing the potential spread and behavior of the ﬁre. (C) Data from Human and
Earth Observations: The ontology must include data relevant to the analysis of input data coming from
various type of sensors, satellites, and social media sources. This knowledge provides valuable infor-
mation for monitoring and assessing the wildﬁre situation. (D) Missions and Relationships Between
Services: Representation of missions and relationships between the services involved in wildﬁre man-
agement is important for coordinating and organizing emergency response eﬀorts. Moreover, you will be
given three sets of competency questions. The competency questions are the following: The ﬁrst set aims
to represent the wildﬁre disaster and relevant incident and impacts: (CQ1) What are the most important
weather variables that can cause forest ﬁre? (CQ2) What are the current measurements for these weather
variables? (CQ3) What is the forecast for the weather in this location? (CQ4) Where did the incident
take place? (CQ5) What is the priority of an incident during a forest ﬁre disaster? (CQ6) What incidents
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 36]]
36 Andreas Soularidis et al.
during forest ﬁres are the most urgent? Set of CQs that you must take into account related data from
human and earth observations: (CQ7) What data from the source is depicted? (CQ8) Which is the cre-
ation date of these data? (CQ9) What is the location of this item? (CQ10) Which is the classiﬁcation
type of smoke? (CQ11) Which vulnerable objects were involved in the incident? (CQ12) What is the
status of wildﬁre forestry works (ﬁrebreaks, access to forest roads, etc.)? The last set of CQs that your
ontology must answer is related to the representation of missions and relationships between the services:
(CQ13) What services or support do you oﬀer for ﬁreﬁghting? (CQ14) Which mission do you follow for
this support/service? (CQ15) What is the location where this mission is taking place? (CQ16) Where is
the most urgent mission taking place? (CQ17) What is the population density in the area? (CQ18) What
is the location of the people involved? Your ultimate goal is to generate a comprehensive ontology that
covers all of the above requirements and is capable of answering the above questions. You need to create
an extensive, comprehensive and well-connected ontology using all the necessary owl axioms to meet
all the above requirements.
During the discussion and design of the ontology you should consider the following additional con-
tent. You should follow the above way of thinking-acting-observing, but BEHIND THE SCENES and
WITHOUT showing this thinking chain during the discussion and the ontology generation process, as
given below
START OF REACT
{react_context}
END OF REACT
You should also use the some of the following OWL axioms to make the ontology as expressive as
possible. Use ONLY THE ONTOLOGY AXIOMS given in the EXAMPLES and NOT the DATA
PRESENTED. You do not need to use all of them, but only the necessary axioms to create a WELL
CONNECTED and EXPRESSIVE ontology.
START OF OWL DOCUMENTATION
{owl_context}
END OF OWL DOCUMENTATION
The following data describe real Search and Rescue (SAR) missions. You should EXTRACT related con-
cepts (CLASSES and OBJECT PROPERTIES) and add them to the generated ontology. Try to extract
as much relevant classes and properies as possible.
START OF DOMAIN DATA
{sar_context}
END OF DOMAIN DATA
The iterative discussion stops when the generated ontology answers all the given competency questions
and covers all the requirements of the ontology. Thus create as many classes and properties as possible.
Feel free to use domain knowledge to extend the ontology with classes and properties to make it as
comprehensive as possible. DO NOT STOP until cover all the given requirements. Present the iterative
discussion and the generated ontology in Turtle (TTL) format WITHOUT individuals.
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 37]]
The Knowledge Engineering Review 37
Table B1. Comparative average measures among similarity method of RAG in the ﬁrst experimental phase
Appendix B
Classes Object properties Properties
Similarity Average Average Average Answered
Method number Precision Recall F1-score number Precision Recall F1-score number Precision Recall F1-score CQs (%)
In this section the results of the ﬁrst experimental phase are presented.
Similarity 19 0,63 0,14 0,23 8 0,28 0,04 0,07 16 0,39 0,06 0,10 24
MMR 17 0,55 0,12 0,19 6 0,29 0,03 0,06 11 0,31 0,04 0,07 18
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 38]]
38 Andreas Soularidis et al.
Table B2. Comparative average measures regarding LLM temperature in the ﬁrst experimental phase
Classes Object properties Properties
Average Average Average Answered
Temperature number Precision Recall F1-score number Precision Recall F1-score number Precision Recall F1-score CQs (%)
0.0 21 0,64 0,16 0,25 10 0,35 0,06 0,10 16 0,48 0,08 0,13 21
0.5 20 0,56 0,13 0,21 8 0,26 0,04 0,06 14 0,29 0,05 0,08 26
1.0 13 0,58 0,10 0,16 4 0,26 0,01 0,02 10 0,28 0,03 0,05 16
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 39]]
The Knowledge Engineering Review 39
Table B3. Comparative average measures of the ﬁrst experimental phase
Classes Object properties Properties
Ontology Precision Recall F1-score Precision Recall F1-score Precision Recall F1-score Answered CQs (%)
claude-0.0-750-mmr-4 0.52 0.19 0.28 0.33 0.03 0.06 0.38 0.03 0.05 39
claude-0.0-750-sim-4 0.63 0.15 0.24 0.60 0.05 0.09 0.80 0.04 0.07 6
claude-0.5-750-mmr-4 0.71 0.06 0.11 0.40 0.03 0.06 0.60 0.03 0.06 6
claude-0.5-750-sim-4 0.63 0.13 0.21 0.33 0.05 0.09 0.57 0.08 0.14 28
claude-1.0-750-mmr-4 0.80 0.05 0.09 0 0.00 0 0 0.00 0 0
claude-1.0-750-sim-4 0.68 0.19 0.29 0.33 0.05 0.09 0.53 0.08 0.14 44
gpt-4o-0.0-750-mmr-4 0.71 0.15 0.25 0.44 0.12 0.18 0.57 0.16 0.25 39
gpt-4o-0.0-750-sim-4 0.92 0.15 0.26 0.46 0.10 0.16 0.57 0.12 0.20 50
gpt-4o-0.5-750-mmr-4 0.67 0.23 0.34 0.40 0.10 0.16 0.48 0.12 0.19 78
gpt-4o-0.5-750-sim-4 0.55 0.15 0.24 0.83 0.08 0.15 0.58 0.14 0.22 67
gpt-4o-1.0-750-mmr-4 0.58 0.14 0.22 0.40 0.03 0.06 0.80 0.12 0.21 33
gpt-4o-1.0-750-sim-4 0.60 0.11 0.19 0.14 0.02 0.03 0.44 0.08 0.13 44
gemini-0.0-750-mmr-4 0.47 0.11 0.18 0.20 0.02 0.03 0.36 0.04 0.07 6
gemini-0.0-750-sim-4 0.57 0.20 0.30 0.38 0.08 0.14 0.44 0.11 0.17 28
gemni-0.5-750-mmr-4 0.38 0.11 0.17 0.20 0.02 0.03 0.60 0.03 0.06 0
gemini-0.5-750-sim-4 0.42 0.13 0.19 0.13 0.02 0.03 0.09 0.01 0.02 11
gemini-1.0-750-mmr-4 0.14 0.01 0.02 1.00 0.02 0.03 0.50 0.01 0.02 6
gemini-1.0-750-sim-4 0.67 0.08 0.13 0.00 0.00 0 0.58 0.07 0.12 11
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 40]]
40 Andreas Soularidis et al.
Table C1. Experimental results from the ﬁrst experimental setting
Appendix C
Evaluation Measures
Ontology Consistency Syntactical Object Data
Ontology reusability (Pellet reasoner) errors Axioms Classes properties properties Subclasses Equivalent Disjoint
In this section the results of the second experimental phase are presented.
Experiment 1 Yes Yes No 118 15 7 8 15 1 0
Experiment 2 No Yes No 57 16 5 14 19 19 2
Experiment 3 Yes Yes No 52 16 5 6 11 3 0
Experiment 4 Yes Yes No 75 15 9 10 19 6 1
Experiment 5 No Yes No 97 16 8 15 23 3 0
Experiment 6 Yes Yes No 92 22 10 8 18 17 0
Experiment 7 No Yes No 68 23 10 5 15 0 0
Experiment 8 No Yes No 61 13 22 9 31 17 0
Experiment 9 Yes Yes No 59 19 13 7 20 20 1
Experiment 10 No Yes No 111 39 18 6 24 0 0
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 41]]
The Knowledge Engineering Review 41
Table C2. Measures of the ﬁrst experimental setting
Classes Object properties Properties
Total Total Total Answered
Measures number Precision Recall F1-score number Precision Recall F1-score number Precision Recall F1-score CQs (%)
Experiment 1 15 0,73 0,14 0,23 7 0,57 0,07 0,12 15 0,80 0,12 0,21 56
Experiment 2 16 0,63 0,13 0,21 5 0,40 0,03 0,06 19 0,58 0,11 0,18 39
Experiment 3 16 0,69 0,14 0,23 5 0,40 0,03 0,06 11 0,82 0,09 0,16 22
Experiment 4 15 0,67 0,13 0,21 9 0,44 0,07 0,12 19 0,63 0,12 0,20 61
Experiment 5 16 0,69 0,14 0,23 8 0,50 0,07 0,12 23 0,52 0,12 0,19 78
Experiment 6 22 0,73 0,20 0,31 10 0,40 0,07 0,11 18 0,50 0,09 0,15 67
Experiment 7 23 0,57 0,16 0,25 10 0,50 0,08 0,14 15 0,53 0,08 0,14 56
Experiment 8 13 0,69 0,11 0,19 22 0,18 0,07 0,10 31 0,39 0,12 0,18 61
Experiment 9 19 0,58 0,14 0,22 13 0,08 0,02 0,03 20 0,25 0,05 0,08 44
Experiment 10 39 0,56 0,28 0,37 18 0,61 0,18 0,28 24 0,58 0,14 0,22 67
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 42]]
42 Andreas Soularidis et al.
Table C3. Experimental results from the second experimental setting
Evaluation Measures
Ontology Consistency Syntactical Object Data
Ontology reusability (Pellet reasoner) errors Axioms Classes properties properties Subclasses Equivalent Disjoint
Experiment 1 No Yes No 116 14 13 3 16 0 0
Experiment 2 No Yes No 156 65 12 3 15 38 0
Experiment 3 No Yes No 160 48 36 1 37 0 0
Experiment 4 No Yes No 137 29 15 13 28 12 0
Experiment 5 No Yes No 149 22 14 7 21 13 0
Experiment 6 No Yes No 155 61 6 11 17 48 0
Experiment 7 No Yes No 196 47 42 4 46 11 0
Experiment 8 No Yes No 96 18 18 11 29 0 0
Experiment 9 No Yes No 162 14 14 10 24 0 0
Experiment 10 No Yes No 135 30 13 22 35 0 0
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 43]]
The Knowledge Engineering Review 43
Table C4. Measures of the second experimental setting
Classes Object properties Properties
Total Total Total Answered
Measures number Precision Recall F1-score number Precision Recall F1-score number Precision Recall F1-score CQs (%)
Experiment 1 14 0,93 0,16 0,28 13 0,54 0,12 0,19 16 0,50 0,08 0,14 50
Experiment 2 65 0,43 0,35 0,39 12 0,58 0,12 0,19 15 0,67 0,10 0,17 67
Experiment 3 48 0,46 0,28 0,34 36 0,22 0,13 0,17 37 0,24 0,09 0,13 24
Experiment 4 29 0,52 0,19 0,28 15 0,40 0,10 0,16 28 0,50 0,14 0,22 50
Experiment 5 22 0,77 0,21 0,33 14 0,07 0,02 0,03 21 0,10 0,02 0,03 10
Experiment 6 61 0,41 0,31 0,35 6 0,67 0,07 0,12 17 0,59 0,10 0,17 59
Experiment 7 47 0,43 0,25 0,31 42 0,26 0,18 0,22 46 0,33 0,15 0,20 33
Experiment 8 18 0,72 0,16 0,27 18 0,33 0,10 0,15 29 0,45 0,13 0,20 45
Experiment 9 14 0,86 0,15 0,26 14 0,79 0,18 0,30 24 0,63 0,15 0,24 63
Experiment 10 30 0,50 0,19 0,27 13 0,31 0,07 0,11 35 0,58 0,14 0,22 29
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 44]]
44 Andreas Soularidis et al.
Table C5. Experimental results from the third experimental setting
Evaluation Measures
Ontology Consistency Syntactical Object Data
Ontology reusability (Pellet reasoner) errors Axioms Classes properties properties Subclasses Equivalent Disjoint
Experiment 1 No Yes No 100 19 11 13 24 10 0
Experiment 2 No Yes No 53 8 5 10 15 0 0
Experiment 3 No Yes No 132 14 12 6 18 0 0
Experiment 4 No Yes No 102 7 3 12 15 0 0
Experiment 5 No Yes No 57 11 1 19 20 6 0
Experiment 6 No Yes No 84 19 7 12 19 9 0
Experiment 7 No Yes No 120 18 20 10 30 3 0
Experiment 8 No Yes No 101 24 6 14 20 18 0
Experiment 9 No Yes No 158 25 13 3 16 15 0
Experiment 10 No Yes No 69 15 5 12 17 3 0
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 45]]
The Knowledge Engineering Review 45
Table C6. Measures of the third experimental setting
Classes Object properties Properties
Total Total Total Answered
Measures number Precision Recall F1-score number Precision Recall F1-score number Precision Recall F1-score CQs (%)
Experiment 1 19 0,68 0,16 0,26 11 0,64 0,12 0,20 24 0,50 0,12 0,19 61
Experiment 2 8 0,88 0,09 0,16 5 0,40 0,03 0,06 15 0,60 0,09 0,15 50
Experiment 3 14 0,36 0,06 0,11 12 0,25 0,05 0,08 18 0,56 0,10 0,17 56
Experiment 4 7 0,71 0,06 0,11 3 0,33 0,02 0,03 15 0,67 0,10 0,17 50
Experiment 5 11 0,64 0,09 0,15 1 0,00 0,00 0,00 20 0,60 0,12 0,20 39
Experiment 6 19 0,68 0,16 0,26 7 0,71 0,08 0,15 19 0,68 0,13 0,21 50
Experiment 7 18 0,78 0,18 0,29 20 0,65 0,22 0,33 30 0,60 0,18 0,27 67
Experiment 8 24 0,71 0,21 0,33 6 0,33 0,03 0,06 20 0,55 0,11 0,18 39
Experiment 9 25 0,52 0,16 0,25 13 0,31 0,07 0,11 16 0,50 0,08 0,14 61
Experiment 10 15 0,67 0,13 0,21 5 0,40 0,03 0,06 17 0,53 0,09 0,15 28
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 46]]
46 Andreas Soularidis et al.
Table C7. Experimental results from the fourth experimental setting
Evaluation Measures
Ontology Consistency Syntactical Object Data
Ontology reusability (Pellet reasoner) errors Axioms Classes properties properties Subclasses Equivalent Disjoint
Experiment 1 No Yes No 54 14 5 8 13 7 0
Experiment 2 No Yes No 84 17 19 6 25 0 0
Experiment 3 No Yes Minor 58 13 9 6 15 0 0
Experiment 4 No Yes No 115 17 16 12 28 3 0
Experiment 5 No Yes No 64 18 8 8 16 0 0
Experiment 6 No Yes No 56 14 13 7 20 0 0
Experiment 7 No Yes No 74 11 10 9 19 0 0
Experiment 8 No Yes No 84 17 8 12 20 6 0
Experiment 9 No Yes No 74 8 4 16 20 0 0
Experiment 10 No Yes No 63 11 7 10 17 0 0
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 47]]
The Knowledge Engineering Review 47
Table C8. Measures of the fourth experimental setting
Classes Object properties Properties
Total Total Total Answered
Measures number Precision Recall F1-score number Precision Recall F1-score number Precision Recall F1-score CQs (%)
Experiment 1 14 0,71 0,13 0,21 5 0,00 0,00 0,00 13 0,00 0,00 0,00 0
Experiment 2 17 0,71 0,15 0,25 19 0,32 0,10 0,15 25 0,32 0,08 0,13 28
Experiment 3 13 0,85 0,14 0,24 9 0,67 0,10 0,17 15 0,60 0,09 0,15 22
Experiment 4 17 0,76 0,16 0,27 16 0,44 0,12 0,18 28 0,39 0,11 0,17 67
Experiment 5 18 0,72 0,16 0,27 8 0,50 0,07 0,12 16 0,69 0,11 0,19 33
Experiment 6 14 0,71 0,13 0,21 13 0,77 0,17 0,27 20 0,80 0,16 0,26 61
Experiment 7 11 0,82 0,11 0,20 10 0,40 0,07 0,11 19 0,53 0,10 0,17 39
Experiment 8 17 0,71 0,15 0,25 8 0,13 0,02 0,03 20 0,40 0,08 0,13 61
Experiment 9 8 0,75 0,08 0,14 4 0,25 0,02 0,03 20 0,55 0,11 0,18 28
Experiment 10 11 0,73 0,10 0,18 7 0,71 0,08 0,15 17 0,76 0,13 0,22 50
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 48]]
48 Andreas Soularidis et al.
Table D1. Measures of the domain-speciﬁc data augmentation experiment
Appendix D
Classes Object properties Properties
Total Total Total Answered
Measures number Precision Recall F1-score number Precision Recall F1-score number Precision Recall F1-score CQs (%)
In this section the results of the third experimental phase are presented.
Experiment 1 19 0,84 0,20 0,32 10 0,50 0,08 0,14 21 0,52 0,11 0,18 33
Experiment 2 21 0,67 0,18 0,28 17 0,24 0,07 0,10 23 0,30 0,07 0,11 11
Experiment 3 24 0,54 0,16 0,25 10 0,10 0,02 0,03 17 0,47 0,08 0,13 39
Experiment 4 26 0,54 0,18 0,26 14 0,43 0,10 0,16 24 0,63 0,15 0,24 44
Experiment 5 110 0,24 0,33 0,27 15 0,53 0,13 0.21 50 0,20 0,10 0,13 39
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 49]]
The Knowledge Engineering Review 49
Table D2. Experimental results from the augmentation of domain-speciﬁc data
Evaluation Measures
Ontology Consistency Syntactical Object Data
Ontology reusability (Pellet reasoner) errors Axioms Classes properties properties Subclasses Equivalent Disjoint
Experiment 1 No Yes No 86 19 10 11 4 0 0
Experiment 2 No Yes No 96 21 17 6 0 0 0
Experiment 3 No Yes No 171 24 10 7 7 0 0
Experiment 4 No Yes No 104 26 14 10 13 0 0
Experiment 5 No Yes No 284 110 15 35 72 0 0
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 50]]
50 Andreas Soularidis et al.
Table D3. Measures of the sequential approach
Classes Object properties Properties
Total Total Total Answered
Measures number Precision Recall F1-score number Precision Recall F1-score number Precision Recall F1-score CQs (%)
Experiment 1 34 0,44 0,19 0,26 25 0,52 0,22 0,31 51 0,29 0,15 0,20 56
Experiment 2 27 0,44 0,15 0,22 16 0,75 0,20 0,32 41 0,39 0,16 0,22 56
Experiment 3 53 0,43 0,29 0,35 18 0,39 0,12 0,18 32 0,38 0,12 0,18 78
Experiment 4 45 0,49 0,28 0,35 22 0,27 0,10 0,15 30 0,40 0,12 0,18 56
Experiment 5 62 0,40 0,31 0,35 54 0,17 0,15 0,16 65 0,22 0,14 0,17 50
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 51]]
The Knowledge Engineering Review 51
Table D4. Experimental results from the sequential approach
Evaluation Measures
Ontology Consistency Syntactical Object Data
Ontology reusability (Pellet reasoner) errors Axioms Classes properties properties Subclasses Equivalent Disjoint
Experiment 1 No Yes No 195 34 25 26 23 1 0
Experiment 2 No Yes No 158 27 16 25 16 3 0
Experiment 3 No Yes No 144 53 18 14 36 10 0
Experiment 4 No Yes No 144 45 22 8 6 1 0
Experiment 5 No Yes No 292 62 54 11 29 0 0
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 52]]
52 Andreas Soularidis et al.
References
Argyle, L. P., Busby, E. C., Fulda, N., Gubler, J., Rytting, C. M. & Wingate, D. 2022. Out of one, many: Using language models
to simulate human samples. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2209.06899
Avila, C. V. S., Vidal, V. M. P., Franco, W. & Casanova, M. A. 2024. Experiments with text-to-sparql based on chatgpt. In18th
IEEE International Conference on Semantic Computing, ICSC 2024, Laguna Hills, CA, USA, February 5–7 , 2024, 277–284.
IEEE. https://doi.org/10.1109/ICSC59802.2024.00050
Chang, K. K., Cramer, M., Soni, S. & Bamman, D. 2023. Speak, memory: An archaeology of books known to chatgpt/gpt-4.
In Proceedings of the 2023 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, EMNLP 2023, Singapore,
December 6–10, 2023 , Bouamor, H., Pino, J. & Bali, K. (eds), 7312–7327. Association for Computational Linguistics.
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2023.emnlp-main.453
Chen, N., Deng, Y. & Li, J. 2024. The oscars of AI theater: A survey on role-playing with language models.
https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2407.11484
DeBellis, M., Duttab, N., Ginoc, J. & Balajid, A. 2024. Integrating ontologies and large language models to implement retrieval
augmented generation (rag). Applied Ontology 1, 1–5.
Doumanas, D., Bouchouras, G., Soularidis, A., Kotis, K. & Vouros, G. 2025. From human- to llm-centered collaborative ontology
engineering. Applied Ontology. https://doi.org/10.1177/15705838241305067
Doumanas, D., Soularidis, A., Kotis, K. & Vouros, G. A. 2024. Integrating llms in the engineering of a SAR ontol-
ogy. In Artiﬁcial Intelligence Applications and Innovations - 20th IFIP WG 12.5 International Conference, AIAI 2024,
Corfu, Greece, June 27–30, 2024, Proceedings, Part IV , Maglogiannis, I., Iliadis, L. S., MacIntyre, J., Avlonitis, M.
& Papaleonidas, A. (eds), IFIP Advances in Information and Communication Technology 714, 360–374. Springer.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-63223-5_27
Fathallah, N., Das, A., De Giorgis, S., Poltronieri, A., Haase, P. & Kovriguina, L. 2024. Neon-gpt: a large language model-powered
pipeline for ontology learning. In Extended Semantic Web Conference, ESWC2024. Hersonissos, Greece.
Filippas, A., Horton, J. J. & Manning, B. S. 2024. Large language models as simulated economic agents: What can we learn from
homo silicus?. In Proceedings of the 25th ACM Conference on Economics and Computation, EC 2024, New Haven, CT, USA,
July 8–11, 2024, Bergemann, D., Kleinberg, R. & Sabán, D. (eds), 614–615. ACM.https://doi.org/10.1145/3670865.3673513
Glimm, B., Horrocks, I., Motik, B., Stoilos, G. & Wang, Z. 2014. Hermit: An owl 2 reasoner.Journal of Automated Reasoning
53, 245–269.
Gui, G. & Toubia, O. 2023. The challenge of using llms to simulate human behavior: A causal inference perspective.
https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2312.15524
Hu, Z., Feng, Y., Luu, A. T., Hooi, B. & Lipani, A. 2023. Unlocking the potential of user feedback: Leveraging
large language model as user simulators to enhance dialogue system. In Proceedings of the 32nd ACM International
Conference on Information and Knowledge Management, CIKM 2023, Birmingham, United Kingdom, October 21–25, 2023 ,
Frommholz, I., Hopfgartner, F., Lee, M., Oakes, M., Lalmas, M., Zhang, M. & Santos, R. L. T. (eds), 3953–3957. ACM.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3583780.3615220
Huang, K., Meng, X., Zhang, J., Liu, Y., Wang, W., Li, S. & Zhang, Y. 2023. An empirical study on ﬁne-tuning large language mod-
els of code for automated program repair. In38th IEEE/ACM International Conference on Automated Software Engineering,
ASE 2023, Luxembourg, September 11–15 , 2023, 1162–1174. IEEE. https://doi.org/10.1109/ASE56229.2023.00181
Kommineni, V. K., König-Ries, B. & Samuel, S. 2024. From human experts to machines: An LLM supported approach to ontology
and knowledge graph construction.https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2403.08345
Kosinski, M. 2024. Evaluating large language models in theory of mind tasks.Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences
121(45), e2405460121.
Kotis, K. & Vouros, G. A. 2006. Human-centered ontology engineering: The HCOME methodology.Knowledge and Information
Systems 10(1), 109–131. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10115-005-0227-4
Litaina, T., Soularidis, A., Bouchouras, G., Kotis, K. & Kavakli, E. 2024. Towards llm-based semantic analysis of historical legal
documents. In SemDH@ESWC. https://ceur-ws.org/Vol-3724/short2.pdf
Liu, Y., Yao, Y., Ton, J., Zhang, X., Guo, R., Cheng, H., Klochkov, Y., Tauﬁq, M. F. & Li, H. 2023. Trustworthy llms: A survey
and guideline for evaluating large language models’ alignment.https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2308.05374
Lo, A., Jiang, A. Q., Li, W. & Jamnik, M. 2024. End-to-end ontology learning with large language models.
https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2410.23584
Masa, P., Meditskos, G., Kintzios, S., Vrochidis, S. & Kompatsiaris, I. 2022. Ontology-based modelling and reasoning for forest
ﬁre emergencies in resilient societies. In SETN 2022: 12th Hellenic Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence, Corfu, Greece,
September 7–9, 2022, 24:1–24:9. ACM.https://doi.org/10.1145/3549737.3549765
Mateiu, P. & Groza, A. 2023. Ontology engineering with large language models. In25th International Symposium on Symbolic
and Numeric Algorithms for Scientiﬁc Computing , SYNASC 2023, Nancy, France, September 11–14, 2023 , 226–229. IEEE.
https://doi.org/10.1109/SYNASC61333.2023.00038
Pan, X., van Ossenbruggen, J., de Boer, V. & Huang, Z. 2024. A RAG approach for generating competency questions in ontology
engineering. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2409.08820
Paparidis, E. & Kotis, K. 2021. Towards engineering fair ontologies: Uunbiasing a surveillance ontology. In 2021 IEEE
International Conference on Progress in Informatics and Computing (PIC) , 226–231. IEEE.
Park, J. S., O’Brien, J. C., Cai, C. J., Morris, M. R., Liang, P. & Bernstein, M. S. 2023. Generative agents: Interactive simulacra
of human behavior. In Proceedings of the 36th Annual ACM Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology, UIST
2023, San Francisco, CA, USA, 29 October 2023–1 November 2023 , Follmer, S., Han, J., Steimle, J. & Riche, N. H. (eds),
2:1–2:22. ACM. https://doi.org/10.1145/3586183.3606763
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press

[[page 53]]
The Knowledge Engineering Review 53
Perkovic, G., Drobnjak, A. & Boticki, I. 2024. Hallucinations in llms: Understanding and addressing challenges. In47th MIPRO
ICT and Electronics Convention, MIPRO 2024, Opatija, Croatia, May 20–24, 2024 , Babic, S., Car, Z., Cicin-Sain, M., Cisic,
D., Ergovic, P., Grbac, T. G., Gradisnik, V., Gros, S., Jokic, A., Jovic, A., Jurekovic, D., Katulic, T., Koricic, M., Mornar,
V., Petrovic, J., Skala, K., Skvorc, D., Sruk, V., Svaco, M., Tijan, E., Vrcek, N. & Vrdoljak, B. (eds), 2084–2088. IEEE.
https://doi.org/10.1109/MIPRO60963.2024.10569238
Poveda-Villalón, M., Gómez-Pérez, A. & Suárez-Figueroa, M. C. 2014. Oops! (ontology pitfall scanner!): An on-line tool
for ontology evaluation. International Journal on Semantic Web & Information Systems 10(2), 7–34. https://doi.org/
10.4018/ijswis.2014040102
Reddy, G. P., Pavan Kumar, Y. V. & Prakash, K. P. 2024. Hallucinations in large language models (llms). In 2024 IEEE Open
Conference of Electrical, Electronic and Information Sciences (eStream) , 1–6.
Salemi, A., Mysore, S., Bendersky, M. & Zamani, H. 2024. Lamp: When large language models meet personalization. In
Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), ACL 2024,
Bangkok, Thailand, August 11–16, 2024, Ku, L., Martins, A. & Srikumar, V. (eds), 7370–7392. Association for Computational
Linguistics. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2024.acl-long.399
Shanahan, M., McDonell, K. & Reynolds, L. 2023. Role play with large language models. Nature 623(7987), 493–498.
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-023-06647-8
Soularidis, A., Kotis, K., Lamolle, M., Mejdoul, Z., Lortal, G. & Vouros, G. 2024. Llm-assisted generation of swrl rules from
natural language. In 2024 International Conference on AI x Data and Knowledge Engineering (AIxDKE) , 7–12.
Updyke, D., Podnar, T. & Huﬀ, S. 2023. Simulating realistic human activity using large language model directives.
Yao, S., Zhao, J., Yu, D., Du, N., Shafran, I., Narasimhan, K. R. & Cao, Y. 2023. React: Synergizing reasoning and acting in
language models. In The Eleventh International Conference on Learning Representations, ICLR 2023, Kigali, Rwanda, May
1–5, 2023. OpenReview.net.https://openreview.net/forum?id=WE_vluYUL-X
Zhang, B., Carriero, V. A., Schreiberhuber, K., Tsaneva, S., González, L. S., Kim, J. & de Berardinis, J. 2024. Ontochat: A
framework for conversational ontology engineering using language models.https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2403.05921
Zhao, C., Agrawal, G., Kumarage, T., Tan, Z., Deng, Y., Chen, Y. & Liu, H. 2024. Ontology-aware RAG for improved question-
answering in cybersecurity education. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2412.14191
https://doi.org/10.1017/S026988892510009X Published online by Cambridge University Press