[[page 1]]
A Comparative Study Towards Designing a Hybrid
Architecture of Microservices and LLM-based
Multi-Agent Systems
Peyman Yazdanian∗, Yan Liu∗, Zheng Li†
∗Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Concordia University, Montreal, Canada
peyman.yazdanian@mail.concordia.ca, yan.liu@concordia.ca
†School of Electronics, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Queen’s University Belfast, UK
zheng.li@qub.ac.uk
Abstract—LLM-based Multi-Agent Systems (LLM-MAS)
present an emerging paradigm for constructing intelligent and
adaptive applications that enable autonomous reasoning and col-
laborative problem-solving. Empirical studies show that current
LLM-MAS still suffers from overlapping agent roles, unclear
capabilities, and goal misalignment. In contrast, Microservice
Systems (MS) are designed with modularity, and each service
encapsulates a well-defined context and interface with struc-
tured and deterministic execution. From the system architecture
principles, these paradigms demonstrate parallel attributes and
complementary strengths that lead to a synthesized hybrid
architecture. In this paper, we analyze the design factors of hybrid
MS and LLM-MAS, as well as the main challenges, through
a comparative study across eight architectural dimensions, in-
cluding function encapsulation, orchestration, API design, auto-
correction, data communication, operations, quality attributes,
and environment awareness. The analysis reveals critical mis-
matches, design synergies, and transferable best practices. To
motivate future work, we define four research questions to
categorize the challenges. The goal is to create a converging
design space for exploring architecture design towards intelligent,
autonomous, modular, and adaptive systems.
I. I NTRODUCTION
An LLM-based agent is defined as ”an artificial entity with
prompt specifications (initial state), conversation trace (state)
and ability to interact with the environment, such as tool usage
(action)” [1]. LLM-based Multi-Agent Systems (MAS) enable
the design of autonomous and collaborative problem-solving
through independent reasoning and decision making. These
agents interact through orchestration and achieve collective
intelligence to solve complex tasks collectively [2]. LLM-
MAS enables the system to adapt in different domains, re-
sulting in a significant evolution in the field [1], [2], [3],
[4]. Despite growing interest and attempt to adopt LLM-
based MAS, an empirical analysis [1] has conducted an
assessment over 200 tasks in leading frameworks such as
ChatDev [5] and introduced the Multi-Agent System Failure
Taxonomy (MAST). The taxonomy has identified 14 unique
failure modes, categorized into three areas of poor system
design, inter-agent misalignment, and task verification. The
MAST taxonomy reveals that failures in LLM-MAS are pri-
marily due to systematic design and coordination issues, rather
than simply the limitation of individual LLMs or prompts.
The analysis advocates fundamental and structural LM-MAS
design to overcome the drawbacks of overlapping agent roles,
unclear capabilities and goal misalignment.
The current works on LLM-MAS mainly focus on sys-
tem design [6], [7], coordination [8], [9], communication
and protocols [10], [11], [12], agent capabilities [13], [14],
workflows [2], [15], frameworks [16], [17], [18] and inter-
agent coordination misalignment [8], [9], [11], [15], [19].
Following well-defined modularity and boundaries with tool
chains for deployment and operations [20], [21], microservice
systems (MS) have deterministic execution paths with APIs
for encapsulation, communication, and failover [20], [21].
Benchmarks of MS concentrate on assessing performance and
scalability [22], comparing technology impact, establishing
clear service boundaries, operational aspects such as observ-
ability and DevOps best practices, and Root Cause Analy-
sis (RCA) [23], [24]. From the system architecture design,
design paradigms in these two systems demonstrate parallel
attributes. Hence, one conjecture of a new design initiative is
to complement both strengths that lead to a synthesized hybrid
architecture.
Motivation for the Hybrid Architecture: Both MS and
LLM-MAS contain encapsulation of specific functionality and
roles, but at different levels and approaches for coordination
and orchestration. MS typically rely on centralized orches-
tration, and coordination is controlled externally outside of
individual services, such as a central control point or service
registries [20], [25]. Each microservice is designed to respond
to API invocations reactively without an autonomous decision
on execution [20], and the vision of the global objective is
external to individual services. In contrast, MAS inherently
offers decentralized orchestration using direct coordination
among agents [8]. Each agent has the autonomy to decide on
its participation, actions, and contribution towards achieving a
high-level and global objective.
The hybrid architecture aims to bridge the orchestration
paradigms in MS and LLM-MAS to allow an agentic system to
act as an external context for managing microservices through
autonomous communication among AI agents instead of static
761
2025 32nd Asia-Pacific Software Engineering Conference (APSEC)
DOI 10.1109/APSEC66846.2025.00077
2025 32nd Asia-Pacific Software Engineering Conference (APSEC) | 979-8-3315-6653-1/25/$31.00 ©2025 IEEE | DOI: 10.1109/APSEC66846.2025.00077
979-8-3315-6653-1/25/$31.00 ©2025 IEEE
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nova Southeastern University. Downloaded on September 04,2026 at 20:12:40 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

[[page 2]]
orchestration. Furthermore, the hybrid system can leverage
the deterministic control of microservices to overcome is-
sues of LLM-MAS (mentioned in MAST [1]) on agents’
deviation from task specification, redundancy and repetition
in operation, unawareness of conditions, as well as inter-
agent misalignment. Finally, the hybrid architecture of MS
and LLM-MAS aims to adapt to requirement changes and
runtime conditions through reasoning rather than static logic
modification.
In this paper, we analyze the design factors of hybrid MS
and LLM-MAS to identify the main challenges through a
comparative study. We outline a layered reference architec-
ture that aligns both systems to derive eight architectural
dimensions, including function encapsulation, orchestration,
API design, auto-correction, data communication, operations,
quality attributes, and environmental awareness. At each layer,
we outline MS and LLM-MAS on two sides and annotate the
key design factors. The analysis reveals critical mismatches,
design synergies, and transferable best practices.
II. T HE ANALYSIS METHOD
We develop a structured comparative method to study the
integration of Microservice Systems (MS) and LLM-based
Multi-Agent Systems (LLM-MAS). The objective is to iden-
tify transferable best practices and connect both paradigms
through a hybrid architectural design. Unlike existing stud-
ies that primarily focus on system-level surveys or specific
framework capabilities, our approach is grounded in a layered
reference architecture, as depicted in Figure 1. The architec-
ture organizes the system into coherent bottom-up functional
blocks, including the runtime management, context, data com-
munication, interface, pipeline and workflow. Each layer is
used to align the functional roles and design assumptions of
both systems. Based on this reference model, we outline the
key design factors of MS and LLM-MAS on the two sides of
each layer. The commonalities and mismatches in each layer
are discussed in detail as follows.
A. Microservice Systems
1) Key Design F actors: The design of MS is of bounded
context, which is the fundamental element of Domain-Driven
Design (DDD) to enable the modular implementation of
business logic in software [20]. It encapsulates each service
with specific business functionality with a well-defined API
and maintains its state and data using a dedicated database
[20], while complex workflows are implemented by the coor-
dination of individual services [20], [25]. The interface layer
of microservices is mainly APIs based on a fixed schema to
be consumed in public and internal communication through
lightweight protocols such as REST or gRPC over HTTP [26].
Microservice systems might be deployed in various cloud or
on-premise infrastructures and require awareness of the con-
text and environment, such as external databases, profile (e.g.,
test, production), specific configuration [27], and dynamic
discovery of other microservices for internal communication
[20]. Another important factor in the design of microservices
L5 (RQ1, RQ2, RQ4)
L4 (RQ1)
L3 (RQ2)
L2 (RQ3)
L1 (RQ3)
Fig. 1: A layered reference architecture for alignment of MS
and LLM-MAS
is independent scaling and redundancy to support failover,
which is achieved through DevOps best practices and container
orchestration tools [28].
2) Challenges: Despite its advantages and being widely
adopted, MS presents several technical and organizational
challenges. Most importantly, microservices lack reasonabil-
ity and adaptivity due to implementation based on prede-
fined logic. Furthermore, data inconsistency across multiple
databases is a key challenge in MS that requires novel ap-
proaches to deal with (e.g., Saga pattern [29] for eventual
consistency, two-phase commit to ensure strong consistency
with atomic distributed transactions) [20]. Moreover, latency
and disruption in the network necessitate resilience patterns for
service communication in MS (e.g., circuit breakers, retries)
[20], [30], [31]. Finally, MS require a complex lifecycle
management for deployment, scaling, and observability based
on a wide variety of tools and third-party services.
To address the reasonability and adaptivity problem of mi-
croservices, typical MS can be combined with Large Language
Models (LLM) by invoking its main API through an external
API proxy. This will support adaptation and provide cognitive
capabilities for microservices, by reasoning using the LLM
call during complex scenarios, to not rely solely on their static
functionality [32]. However, this architecture is still limited
to the direct reasoning of a single LLM. Such a system,
although it increases adaptivity compared to typical MS, can
not cope with dynamic behaviour and may not perform well
even compared with a single-agent paradigm.
762
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nova Southeastern University. Downloaded on September 04,2026 at 20:12:40 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

[[page 3]]
B. LLM-Based Multi-Agent Systems
1) Key Design Factors : Agentic AI systems that are aug-
mented by LLMs provide an alternative framework to solve
complex problems using collective intelligence [2], [1]. AI
agents receive a text-based input prompt, reason autonomously
based on their specific capabilities and roles through LLM, and
maintain their own memory. Unlike microservices, coordina-
tion occurs here through collaboration between agents to share
beliefs and negotiate to solve conflicts in their planning using
rich-semantic protocols in decentralized architecture [8], [33],
or task delegation by a planner agent to specialized ones in
a centralized architecture [8], [33]. Depending on how agent
coordination is structured and the needed balance of auton-
omy with alignment, different architectural paradigms can be
applied to MAS, such as centralized, decentralized (peer-to-
peer), hierarchical, or hybrid topologies [2], [34]. Moreover,
to interact with external systems, LLM-based agents invoke
tools to perform operational activities for their decisions or
fetch real-time data [2], [4], [8].
Since AI agents are stateful, contrary to microservices [35],
the scaling of each agent is not achieved through pure repli-
cation. Therefore, supporting failover in LLM-MAS requires
specific fallback mechanisms beyond infrastructure-based re-
dundancy and health checks employed in MS. Moreover, AI
agents need to perceive the environment to adapt their be-
haviour to dynamic changes [36], and discover available tools,
based on their cognitive capabilities. In parallel to DevOps for
MS, novel operational paradigms known as AgentOps [37]
emerged in LLM-MAS to manage the agent’s lifecycle and
monitoring across all steps (e.g., LLM invocation, reasoning,
collaboration, and external tool calling) [38].
2) Challenges: Designing robust and effective LLM-MAS
at scale will raise its own technical challenges. Ensuring cohe-
sion and avoiding inconsistency in the reasoning of agents are
the most challenging aspects of LLM-MAS [8], [33]. Besides
that, communication between agents can introduce latency and
become bottlenecks at scale [10], due to the exchange of both
data and intent. Last but not least, agents in LLM-MAS face
stochastic behaviour in reasoning and decision-making, which
makes reproducibility a key challenge [4].
III. T HE TAXONOMY OF THE COMPARATIVE STUDY
This section introduces our comparative framework to an-
alyze differences and commonalities between both systems,
toward potential hybrid architectures. We identify eight critical
architectural dimensions that define the core contrasts between
the two paradigms. Through this dimensional analysis, we
expose systematic mismatches, reveal design synergies, and
extract transferable engineering practices such as fault isola-
tion, continuous deployment, automated quality assurance, and
security mechanisms.
A. Contrastive Analysis
Based on the assessment of MS and LLM-MAS from a
multilayer perspective as in Figure 1, as well as key design
factors and challenges of both systems analyzed in the previous
section, they demonstrate fundamental differences in eight
aspects, which are chosen to contrast them in our comparative
study and discussed as follows. Table I presents the taxonomy
we propose to systematically contrast MS and LLM-MAS in
the defined set of dimensions, as well as the corresponding
layer annotation shown in Figure 1.
1) Function Encapsulation : Microservices have clear and
discrete boundaries that are human-defined using Domain
Driven Development (DDD) [20]. This principle dictates the
encapsulation of functionality in each service to allow it to
contain all the logic and relevant data needed for a single
responsibility [20]. Furthermore, this approach leads to the
independence of microservices during deployment and scala-
bility [20].
In contrast, function encapsulation is more dynamic and
adaptive in LLM-MAS. It is embedded within the construction
of each agent using prompts, and each agent encapsulates
its functionality by defining the profile and skills, memory
mechanisms, planning capabilities, and available tool set [35].
Furthermore, agent capabilities can be extended or refined
based on evolving tasks, under-performance of another agent,
or conversation context during runtime [39], which leads to
fluid encapsulation. Unlike in MS where functional overlap is
an anti-pattern, in MAS, the agent roles may be extended, and
the boundaries between them become dynamic and not clear.
2) Orchestration: In MS, orchestration refers to the coor-
dination of interactions between services to complete a flow
in a centralized or decentralized manner [20], [25]. It is
predefined as explicit workflows, and microservices do not
decide to participate in a pipeline, as they should respond
reactively to API invocations or events, and the vision of
a global objective is external to them. In the centralized
approach, an external service known as the orchestrator (e.g.,
Temporal, Camunda) manages the sequence of calls between
microservices to complete a business flow [25]. Conversely,
in decentralized choreography, microservices autonomously
react to generated events in the system without a central
control [25]. The challenge in centralized orchestration is
the single point of failure of the central controller, while in
the choreography pattern, the system may be chaotic as the
number of microservices and events grows.
Orchestration within MAS is the process of coordinating
multiple AI agents to achieve common goals. In contrast to
MS, it is adaptive and autonomous in LLM-MAS, and AI
agents make the decision about participating in the collabora-
tion flow to achieve a global objective. There are various types
of orchestration in MAS, such as centralized, decentralized, hi-
erarchical, and federated [8], [40]. In the centralized approach,
an LLM planner agent as a central controller organizes the
activities of other specialized agents and delegates tasks to
them [4], such as AutoGen [16] and MetaGPT [41]. Unlike
in a decentralized orchestration, agents make independent
decisions and reach a consensus as a group [4], [8], [40], such
as AgentNet [42].
763
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nova Southeastern University. Downloaded on September 04,2026 at 20:12:40 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

[[page 4]]
3) API Design : Since all data exchange between services
occurs through messages and API calls, careful design of
APIs as interfaces for microservices and versioning to manage
evolution and backward compatibility is of great importance.
These APIs may be exposed as explicit contracts (e.g. Ope-
nAPI) for public clients, or Backend APIs to be used in
interservice communication [20], [26]. API gateways play a
crucial role as an intermediary layer to manage all incoming
requests and decouple clients from the direct invocation of
microservices [20]. Another important aspect in API design is
to ensure idempotent operations to obtain identical responses
in multiple invocations without side effects [26]. Eventually,
service invocation in MS is performed through well-defined
contract-based APIs such as OpenAPI using REST or gRPC
requests with predefined input/output schema [20], [26].
The concept of API design in LLM-MAS is different and
primarily revolves around creating interfaces for interaction
with external systems or APIs as tools. LLM agents leverage
external tools to expand their capabilities and perform actions,
such as accessing real-time data or manipulating databases
[3]. This procedure involves understanding the tools available
and the ability to determine whether a tool is necessary to
solve a problem by agents [43], [44]. Hence, LLM-MAS
require prompt-compatible API documentation including rich
descriptions of purpose, schema, and example usage to enable
accurate selection and invocation through reasoning in the
absence of formal contracts. Moreover, the invocation of
agents within LLM-MAS is based on prompting or high-
level task delegation [35], which are often performed by agent
orchestration frameworks such as AutoGen [16], Lang Graph
[17] or Crew AI [18].
4) Auto-Correction: In MS, auto-correction and error han-
dling for issues such as misinvocation or parameter missing are
usually explicit and pre-programmed. Developers should man-
age failures and address such scenarios by ignoring and using a
placeholder for missing data, throwing appropriate exceptions,
or returning a defined Result Class object [45]. Otherwise, the
system raises an error that may not be anticipated or handled
by the clients.
LLM-MAS goes beyond legacy error handling by enabling
agents to self-verify and self-correct their reasoning in the
case of misinvocation or incorrect input. Frameworks such as
S2.R [46] teach the LLM to constantly reassess its solutions
and to be able to identify mistakes and self-check during
the reasoning process. A novel approach used in InSeC [47],
which applies self-correction directly into the LLM training
process to obtain a more robust system.
5) Data Communication : Communication in MS is com-
monly syntactic, one-shot, and may be synchronous us-
ing RESTful/gRPC APIs over the HTTP protocol, or asyn-
chronous event-driven architectures using message brokers
[20], [48]. Communication protocols in MS are usually state-
less and based on predefined schemas and interfaces, such
as HTTP-based Representational State Transfer (REST) and
Remote Procedure Call (RPC) [20]. These protocols are op-
timized for data exchange based on performance and schema
rather than a semantic and intent-driven approach [48], [49].
Unlikely, agents’ communication within MAS is inherently
distributed and semantic-based for exchanging both data and
intent, and usually multi-turn. Moreover, agents expose their
capabilities or intentions, instead of static endpoints or inter-
face contracts such as OpenAPI [48]. MAS communication
protocols are stateful and based on rich-semantic and multi-
turn negotiation, and are designed specifically for collaboration
and belief/intention exchange between agents [48], [9], [50],
or accessing external tools and data sources [12]. These
protocols allow agents to negotiate, collaborate and adapt in
dynamic environments, but introduce higher communication
overhead and complexity [10]. Examples include legacy FIPA
ACL (Agent Communication Language) and novel protocols
[48], [50], such as MCP (Model Context Protocol) [12],
[51], A2A (Agent-to-Agent protocol) [52], and ACP (Agent
Communication Protocol) [53].
6) Environment Awareness: Microservices need to know
the topology of the underlying infrastructure and dynamic
variables of their environment for reliable communication or
specific rules. For example, service discovery is a fundamen-
tal component, particularly in cloud environments, for loose
coupling and seamless communication between microservices
by abstracting the actual location of service instances [20].
Configuration management is another important aspect in
awareness from different environments (e.g., development,
test, production) in MS to relying on centralized repositories
for dynamic configurations and variables [27]. Therefore,
adaptation to changing environments in MS requires human
intervention to update configurations or service discovery
rules.
LLM agents are designed to perceive the environment and
interpret input data in textual form and dynamically adapt
their behaviour to changing conditions [36]. Furthermore,
dynamic tool discovery and shared contexts between agents
offered by new protocols such as MCP [12] are other key
aspects of environment awareness in MAS. In contrast to
MS, the awareness mechanism is more adaptive and related
to the cognitive abilities of agents in MAS. This represents
a paradigm shift from static mapping in MS to dynamic
interpretation and discovery in environment awareness within
LLM-MAS to support adaptivity.
7) DevOps vs. AgentOps : MS is deeply related to DevOps
principles (e.g., continuous integration, automated testing, de-
ployment and scaling, and extensive monitoring) to streamline
software development, delivery, and maintainability [54]. In
data-intensive or ML-powered microservices, MLOps extends
these practices by training, versioning, and rolling out of
machine learning or deep learning models, which are deployed
and invoked within microservices. Observability is another
key factor in DevOps to ensure service health and detect
performance bottlenecks and functionality bugs at runtime
in MS, which is achieved through standardized telemetry,
log aggregation (e.g., ELK stack), cloud-based services (e.g.,
764
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nova Southeastern University. Downloaded on September 04,2026 at 20:12:40 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

[[page 5]]
Datadog), and distributed tracing frameworks (e.g., Open-
Telemetry, Zipkin) [20], [21], [54].
In contrast, LLM-MAS introduces novel operational
paradigms known as AgentOps [37]. It extends the foundations
of MLOps and LLMOps by introducing additional layers
focusing on orchestrating agent lifecycles. The monitoring and
observability mechanisms within AgentOps focus on tracking
LLM prompts and responses, reasoning and local beliefs, deci-
sions, external tool calls, states and memories, and inter-agent
interaction flows [37], [38], instead of hardware resource-
based metrics or raw individual logs in DevOps. These mech-
anisms require different and novel tools (e.g., LangSmith,
Langfuse). Guardrail is another concept of AgentOps that
constraints and validates the input and output of LLM-MAS,
to ensure that AI agents operate within defined boundaries and
prevent them from taking unintended actions [55].
8) Quality Attributes : We consider redundancy and
failover, scaling, consistency, CAP theorem tradeoffs, and
evaluation metrics as different aspects under the quality at-
tributes perspective for both MS and LLM-MAS.
Failover: In MS, several instances of a service are typically
deployed to ensure redundancy, and the load is balanced
between them using platforms such as Kubernetes. Upon
detecting a failure in any instance (for example, through
liveness or readiness probes in Kubernetes), automatic failover
occurs by redirecting traffic to a healthy instance and removing
the failed instance from the routing pool [28]. This mechanism
is possible by being stateless of microservices, built-in support
for redundancy in Kubernetes (e.g., replica-set and load bal-
ancer), and standardized health checks.
Unlikely, LLM-MAS face challenges in this approach, since
AI agents are stateful and role-driven [35], making them
harder to replicate purely. Furthermore, regular health check is
replaced with runtime checks in agents for their reasoning and
interactions [38], which is harder to observe and consider as
a criterion for automatic failover. Hence, when an agent fails,
whether due to poor reasoning, hallucination, or tool misuse,
the system needs a fallback mechanism. Some architectural
patterns, such as self-reflection loops or redundant fallback
agents to reason independently on the same task, are discussed
in [15] for soft failover. Overall, in contrast to MS, where
failover relies on infrastructure redundancy (e.g., through
simple replication, health check, and load balancing), failover
in LLM-MAS requires high-level observability and fallback
mechanisms and remains an open area for research.
Auto-scaling: In MS, the scaling unit is typically a con-
tainer or pod, which is managed by container orchestration
platforms such as Kubernetes. Auto-scaling is resource-driven
and is achieved by monitoring utilization metrics such as
CPU and memory usage, or request throughput constantly,
which is managed by the Horizontal Pod Auto-scaler (HPA)
Kubernetes feature [56]. Recent deep learning and graph-based
approaches, such as DeepScaler [57] and Graph-PHPA [58],
attempt to predict workload trend and proactively improve
auto-scaling accuracy in MS under dynamic conditions.
In MAS, the scale unit is the agent or LLM-invoking
component. Unlike MS, auto-scaling here is task-driven rather
than resource-based, by triggers such as goal complexity,
task queue depth, agent failure, or LLM invocation load. For
example, a system may instantiate additional agents based on
concurrent goal volume [59] or dynamically allocate more
large language model instances if current LLM token queues
overwhelm.
Consistency: The consistency in MS is mainly related to
the data perspective (e.g. matching different versions of data
in separate databases using strong or eventual consistency)
[20]. Differently, consistency within MAS is a multifaceted
challenge and is usually about synchronized shared beliefs and
knowledge of agents, which are harder to achieve. Examples
of consistency violations in MS are stale or conflicting data
between services and separate databases, while in LLM-MAS,
they appear as divergence of local beliefs among agents,
objective misalignment, or uncoordinated action by a specific
agent [60]. A novel solution to address these challenges
employed in SagaLLM [61] by introducing ”transaction-like
guarantees” and rollback mechanisms to ensure consistency
and state recovery in multi-agent workflows, inspired by Saga
pattern.
CAP Theorem Considerations: The CAP theorem states
that a distributed system engages in a trade-off, in which it can
only guarantee two aspects simultaneously, and should sacri-
fice one from consistency (C), availability (A), and partition
tolerance (P) based on application needs [20]. In practice, MS
typically prefer availability and partition tolerance (AP) for
user satisfaction and accepts delayed consistency by employ-
ing techniques such as the Saga pattern, unless in applications
in which data accuracy and strict consistency are critical, such
as the financial domain [20].
However, in MAS, rather than achieving strong data consis-
tency with synchronization, it is usually about local belief and
state alignment among agents. The CAP theorem in its classic
form (e.g. the triangle trade-off) may not be fully applied
within MAS, and a weaker alternative such as LCAP (Local
Consistency, Adaptability, Partition Tolerance) can better adapt
to allow each agent to reason autonomously and eventually be
adjusted via negotiation and belief sharing.
Quality Evaluation Metrics: In MS, quality metrics are
focused on external performance and operational reliability
(e.g. latency, throughput, performance, availability and error
rates), often measured as service level indicators (SLIs) and
can be combined under service level agreements (SLAs) [20].
Quality evaluations in MAS shift toward more enriched
aspects (e.g., internal cognitive effectiveness and interaction
performance) rather than static objectives. Since agents in
a LLM-augmented MAS are goal-oriented, different metrics
such as goal convergence, hallucination rate, reasoning con-
vergence, and task and coordination success rate are more
important to evaluate, rather than static KPIs [62].
765
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nova Southeastern University. Downloaded on September 04,2026 at 20:12:40 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

[[page 6]]
TABLE I: Hierarchical Contrastive Taxonomy between MS and LLM-MAS
Perspective Aspect MS Instance LLM-MAS Instance
Function
Encapsulation
(L5)
Modularity
Definition
Human defined Dynamic and adaptive
Contains own logic and data, Clear and discrete
boundaries, Allow single responsibility [20]
Contains profile, skills and available tools [35], Allow
extending and refining with unclear boundaries [39]
Orchestration
(L5)
Coordination
of Interactions
Predefined Adaptive and autonomously
Based on centralized orchestration and decentralized
choreography with the right balance, Microservices are
not aware of how they fit in a large system and must
respond reactively to API invocations or events [20],
[25]. Complete a flow with an external global objective
for each service
Often is centralized (e.g., AutoGen [16], MetaGPT
[41]) which coordinated by a central planner agent
and task delegation to specialized agents, and
decentralized (AgentNet [42]) where AI agents make
decision to participate in the flow through
collaboration to achieve a global objective [4], [8],
[40]
API Design
(L4)
Concept and
Best Practices
Creating well-defined RESTful API Interfaces, exposed
as public contracts or interservice, must consider
versioning idempotent operations [26],
Creating interfaces for interaction with external tools,
involves understanding the available tools and
determining which ones are required [43], [44]
Invocation through API gateway for centralized
management for requests and decoupling client from
microservices [20]
Invocation of individual agents happens through text
prompt or high-level task delegation in frameworks
Auto-
Correction
(L4)
Handling
misinvocation
Explicit and pre-programmed by developers,
Implemented by legacy error handling [45]
Agents are able to self-verify and self-correct their
reasoning from input using LLM [46], Self-correction
can be directly embedded in LLM training process
[47]
Data Com-
munication
(L3)
Mechanisms Syntactic, One-shot, Synchronous or Asynchronous,
Used for data exchange to invoke services or between
them [20], [48]
Semantic based to exchange both data and intent,
Asynchronous or Multi-turn, Used for collaboration
and negotiation between agents, and external tool
invocation [9], [12], [48]
Protocols Often stateless, Based on a rigid schema, Optimized for
data exchange and performance [20], [48], [49]
Stateful, Rich-semantic [9], [48], [50], May introduce
higher complexity and overhead [10]
e.g., REST call over HTTP to retrieve product list and price e.g., Negotiation via A2A protocol or External tool calling
via MCP with messages containing purpose and data
Environment
Awareness
(L2)
Focus and
Approach
Concentrated on topology of the underlying
infrastructure and reliable communication, Adaptation
to new environments needs human intervention
Focused on interpretation from the environment,
Achieved by cognitive abilities of agents, More
adaptive [36]
e.g., Service discovery [20], Centralized configurations [27] e.g., Dynamic tool discovery and Shared context between
agents in MCP [12]
DevOps vs.
AgentOps
(L1)
Objective Streamline software development, delivery, and
maintainability
Orchestrating agent lifecycles including deployment
and monitoring of AI Models and LLM based on
MLOps/LLMOps
Core Concepts Continuous integration, Automated testing, Deployment,
Scaling, Monitoring [54]
Deployment, versioning and monitoring of AI agents
[37], Guardrails to ensure operation within defined
boundaries [55]
Observability
Focus
Service health, Performance bottlenecks, Bugs in
functionality of individual services, Distributed tracing
across involved microservices [20], [21], [54]
LLM calls, agents planning and decisions, external
tool calls, interaction between agents [37], [38], Lack
of focus on hardware usage metrics and performance
Quality
Attributes
(L1, L5)
Failover (L1) Achieved by infrastructure-based redundancy on
microservices and failure detection [28]
Is not well defined in MAS due to stateful nature of
agents, Each agent may be a single point of failure,
Soft failover could be achieved using redundant
fallback agents or self-reflection loops [15]
Scaling
Behaviour
(L1)
Resource-driven (e.g., CPU or Memory usage, Average
Requests)
Task-driven [59] (e.g., Goal complexity, Task queue,
load of LLM calls)
Individual microservices are scaled horizontally [56],
Proactive approaches can be applied based on resource
usage prediction [57], [58]
Additional AI Agents or LLM instances might be
deployed
Consistency
(L5)
Synchronization of data across multiple databases with
strong or eventual consistency [20]
Synchronized beliefs and alignment of objectives
between agents [60]
e.g., Using Saga pattern instead of distributed transactions for
eventual consistency across multiple databases
e.g., SagaLLM [61] introduced ”transaction-like guarantees”
and rollback mechanisms for consistency and state recovery
CAP Theorem
Considerations
(L1, L5)
Consistency or availability might be scarified based on
needs [20]
A weaker alternative with relaxed and local
consistency is required to allow each agent reason
autonomously and then be adjusted via belief sharing
Evaluation
(L1)
Focused on static service-level metrics [20], [63] Measure cognitive and collaborative metrics [62]
e.g., latency, availability, throughput, error rate, unavailability e.g., Success rate in tasks and coordination, Belief drift rate,
Dialogue turns needed for belief alignment
766
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nova Southeastern University. Downloaded on September 04,2026 at 20:12:40 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

[[page 7]]
B. Commonalities
Despite fundamental differences, MS and MAS share sev-
eral core architectural principles. This section highlights the
conceptual commonalities across both paradigms, which can
be considered as the basis for the potential integration of
microservices and AI agents. The proposed taxonomy for the
commonality aspects between two systems is presented in
table II and discussed as follows.
1) Distribution and Autonomy : In MS, distributed mi-
croservices have their own databases and state, and coordinate
with each other [64], [20] through centralized orchestration or
decentralized choreography. Furthermore, each microservice
encapsulates its own logic and lifecycle management to deploy
and scale independently [20], [48]. In parallel, agents can make
decisions autonomously in MAS and maintain their local state,
memory, and individual objective, and collaborate toward a
common goal [2], [4], [48].
2) Specialization of Components : In MS, each microser-
vice implements a specific business functionality, following
the single-responsibility principle, and is crucial for clear inter-
faces, maintainability. Closely, LLM-MAS include specialized
agents with predefined roles and capabilities, each designed to
solve a dedicated part of the overall workflow [2], [48].
3) Emergent Behaviour : Complex business logic is im-
plemented within MS through the emergence of multiple
local functionalities and interactions of loosely coupled mi-
croservices [20]. In parallel, collective intelligence in MAS is
achieved by local reasoning and decision making of individual
agents, and negotiation and cooperation between them [1], [4],
[8], demonstrating an emergent behaviour. In both systems, the
end-to-end functionality is not explicitly hard-coded, but rather
is the result of the execution of several individual smaller
functionalities and interactions between components.
C. Transferrable Best Practices from MS to MAS
Due to the same distributed and modular nature, several en-
gineering best practices, which are widely adopted in MS can
be meaningfully transferred to the design and implementation
of LLM-MAS.
1) Separation of Concerns for Layered Architecture :
In MS, modularity is achieved through the separation of
different layers (e.g., user interface, business logic, and data
persistence layers). Similarly, agents in MAS can follow this
pattern to break up their end-to-end procedures into various
layers, including data perception from the environment, rea-
soning/planning, acting, and memory management, to improve
their maintainability. As shown in a recent survey on technical
aspects of effective LLM-MAS, modular architectural strate-
gies and layered infrastructure are emphasized as key points
to build scalable and maintainable systems [6].
2) Resilience and F ault Isolation for Robust Execution :
Fault tolerance and robustness are achieved in MS through
patterns such as circuit breakers, retries with back-offs, and
fallback mechanisms to stop cascading failure [20], [31]. Sim-
ilarly, agents in a robust MAS should follow this mechanism
to recover from action failures or plan inconsistencies, by
techniques such as re-planning and delegating tasks to another
backup agent. This contributes to the system’s fault tolerance,
preventing it from suffering a single point of failure.
3) Continuous Deployment with Quality Assurance
Pipelines: A well-established set of unit and integration
tests during continuous integration and deployment (CI/CD)
pipelines is pivotal for quality assurance during roll-out of
newer versions in MS. A similar mechanism should be
extended to MAS, to simulate and validate individual per-
formance and goal convergence of agents, as well as their
interactions to collectively solve the problem in diverse sce-
narios, prior to deployment. An emerging best practice in [66]
suggests evaluation-driven development in LLM-MAS, similar
to test-driven development (TDD) in MS, where systematic
benchmarks guide iterative refinement cycles.
4) Security Best Practices for Secure Agent Commu-
nication: Mechanisms such as authentication, authorization,
and encryption are fundamental keys in securing MS [20],
which should be applied in agent interactions in a secure
MAS. For example, the identities of agents should be validated
during invoking external critical resources (e.g., using OAuth
or JWT). Furthermore, role-based access control (RBAC) as
a well-adopted approach for hierarchical authorization in MS,
can be used to regulate which service, tool, or other agent is
authorized to be accessed by an agent within MAS.
Summary: Our comparative study demonstrates critical
mismatches between MS and LLM-MAS in function
encapsulation, orchestration, API design, data commu-
nication, operations (particularly in observability focus),
environment awareness approach, and quality attributes
such as failover, scaling, consistency.
Despite these differences in architectural dimensions,
MS and LLM-MAS reveal design synergies such as
distribution, autonomy, component specialization, and
emergent behaviour in implementing complex work-
flows. Furthermore, the study identifies these four en-
gineering best practices that can be borrowed from
MS and applied directly to LLM-MAS: 1. Separation
of concern by breaking-up procedures to various lay-
ers (e.g., reasoning, acting, memory management) 2.
Resiliency and fault tolerance by employing fallback
mechanisms such as re-planning and delegating tasks
to a backup agent, 3. Developing CI/CD pipelines in-
cluding automated test suite to validate individual and
collective performance of agents before deployment, 4.
Using security best practices in agents interaction (e.g.,
Authentication, Authorization, RBAC).
IV. C ATEGORIZATION OF OPEN RESEARCH QUESTIONS
To motivate future work, we define four research questions
to categorize the challenges to create a converging design
space for exploring hybrid architecture design towards in-
telligent, autonomous, modular, and adaptive systems. These
research questions focus on challenges within the integration
767
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nova Southeastern University. Downloaded on September 04,2026 at 20:12:40 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

[[page 8]]
TABLE II: Commonalities Taxonomy between MS and LLM-MAS
Perspective Shared Property in MS and MAS
Distribution and Autonomy Both are composed of loosely coupled, autonomous components (services or AI
agents) that operate independently and coordinate at runtime [2], [20], [64], [65].
Components encapsulate internal state and logic, enabling independent operation and decision-making
E.g., Microservices and agents independently perform tasks across distributed environments with loosely coupling
Component Specialization Both systems consist of role-specific units, each specialized in and responsible for a dedicated capability or functionality
[2], [48], [65].
E.g., authentication service in MS; price negotiation agent in MAS
Emergent Behaviour System-wide functionality arises from interactions between simple, modular units [4], [20].
E.g., service orchestration pipelines in MS; collective problem solving in MAS
of rigid and boundary-specific microservices with flexible and
cognitive behaviour of AI agents, in the case of coordination,
monitoring, quality assurance mechanisms, and enriching de-
terministic behaviour and explainability approaches for hybrid
systems. Then, by analyzing the existing research on each
challenge separately, we propose future research directions to
address the main gap toward designing robust hybrid systems.
In Figure 1, each architectural layer and its related research
questions are shown as L and (RQ) respectively.
Research Question 1
How are agents able to derive the knowledge of
microservices for collaboration?
In a hybrid system, we face two main challenges in collab-
oration between agents and microservices, in L4 and L5 of
the reference architecture shown in Figure 1:
Challenge 1) Microservice Semantic Comprehension:
Effective collaboration between agents and services within a
hybrid architecture requires the agent’s ability to understand
which microservices are registered, what functionalities they
present, and how they should interact with them through
individual API calls. This requires AI agents to mine the
semantics of microservices to extract this knowledge in the
form of metadata and how to invoke them (e.g., available
service name and objectives, REST endpoints, input/output
schema). The Model Context Protocol (MCP) as a middleware
layer standardizes how AI agents access external applications
and data sources by facilitating tool declaration and discovery
using a specific schema [12]. However, it needs the exact
schema and API definition for each external tool. Recent work
performed in [67] demonstrates how LLMs can be used to
extract high-level goals from the user prompt, decompose them
into sub-goals, and then map them into actual API endpoints
and automate invoking.
Future Research Directions: Although early efforts have
been made to enable agents to mine microservice semantics
in [67], and beyond MCP, there is a need for more formal
methodologies and new tools to extract and represent microser-
vice knowledge in a rich metadata format to be understandable
to AI agents. In addition, maintaining this metadata is very
important as microservices are constantly evolving. Therefore,
a significant gap exists in how agents can dynamically discover
new microservices or updated functionalities and changes
in existing APIs or schema in real-time. Future research
should concentrate on developing LLM agents capable of
continuously monitoring the microservices environment (e.g.,
API gateway logs, telemetry data, OpenAPI contracts, schema
registries). These agents should detect changes in the mi-
croservices API interface and update their internal knowledge
representations such as OpenAPI specification or MCP tool
descriptions.
Challenge 2) Inference of Implicit Service Dependencies:
Beyond explicit API definitions for direct collaboration with
each service, there are semantic dependencies between mi-
croservices themselves, demonstrated as hidden relationships
or side effects between them. Hence, by calling a specific
API from a service, it may be required to invoke some other
dependent methods from the same or other microservices to
fulfill a goal. An initial template to demonstrate how agents
can identify the implicit relationships between microservices
introduced in [68] by the concept of a Semantic Dependency
Matrix, which proposes an automated approach to extract and
represent these hidden relationships. Furthermore, to address
similar behaviour in MAS, Causal Influence Diagrams are
proposed in [69] to identify and mitigate decision risks and
enable agents to anticipate harmful results, by providing a
structured representation of cause-and-effect relationships.
Future Research Directions: To follow the continuous
changes in microservices, the ability to constantly update
a dynamic graph of dependencies between services is not
well-researched. Furthermore, there is a lack of focus on the
proactive behaviour of agents by inferring these dependencies
and adjusting their plans to avoid conflicts in the orchestration
of microservices. In designing LLM agents for a hybrid
architecture, they should perform strict reasoning and verifi-
cation of their action sequences to ensure that all side effects
are considered based on the latest semantic dependencies of
microservices.
Moreover, knowledge graphs are powerful mechanisms for
capturing entities and their relationships and can provide a
rich context for the LLM to perform retrieval-augmented
generation (RAG) [70]. A similar idea can be applied to
consider microservices as entities and capture their semantic
dependencies between different APIs. This can improve the
automation of calling microservices as external tools in the
768
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nova Southeastern University. Downloaded on September 04,2026 at 20:12:40 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

[[page 9]]
hybrid architecture coherently through the RAG mechanism
empowered by knowledge graphs rather than a single LLM.
Research Question 2
How should agents resolve competition and conflict
situations in coordination with a shared microservice?
Within a hybrid architecture, agents act as an orchestration
layer that proxies decisions based on dynamic reasoning and
delegates tasks to microservices, considering them as a worker
role. The following problems are possible in the orchestration
of microservices by AI agents:
Challenge 1) Agent Racing: Multiple agents can compete
to invoke the same API of a common microservice, attempting
to access or modify data simultaneously. This happens if
agents identify the same microservice functionality as rele-
vant to their goals based on their reasoning. Microservices
themselves can use locking to ensure data consistency during
concurrent access. Similarly, priority or scheduling rules define
the order of resource access [8], and can be applied in L5
of the multilayered architecture in Figure 1, to avoid racing
conditions for the same API invocation by multiple agents,
Future Research Directions: There is a critical research
gap to deal with the agent racing problem on the agents’ side
in LLM-MAS using concurrency control mechanisms rather
than relying on mechanisms such as locking in microservices.
Hence, a possible direction for further research in hybrid
systems can be dynamic prioritization and access management,
which involves a meta-agent deciding to allocate access for a
shared microservice to specialized agents. Moreover, introduc-
ing turn-based strategies and extending prioritization rules for
external tool calling through agents’ collaboration should be
considered to deal with agent racing. Another approach may
be the prediction of potential racing conditions based on agent
plans and historical interaction patterns with microservices.
This can enable the system to proactively prevent agent racing
through the re-sequencing of tasks or temporarily block certain
agent actions.
Challenge 2) Reasoning Inconsistency: Multiple agents
that pursue their individual goals might reason to invoke a mi-
croservice, but with contrasting purposes. This leads to calling
different APIs from a microservice with contradictory func-
tionalities for the same data. In contrast to specific research on
agent racing scenarios, which has not performed well, mecha-
nisms for conflict resolution are extensively researched and can
be directly applied in reasoning inconsistency situations. These
mechanisms often involve negotiation between agents using it-
erative debates facilitated by novel protocols such as A2A [52]
through L3 and L5 of the multilayered reference architecture
in Figure 1, predefined rules [8], [15], [35], as well as auction-
based or consensus-based mechanisms [4], [71]. Furthermore,
using a third-party LLM to expand the knowledge boundary
and in-depth debate proposed in [71], to enhance multi-agent
consensus by analyzing uncertainty. In addition, [72] suggests
that agents can adaptively bypass incorrect information and
initial reasoning inconsistency, and eventually find alternative
non-conflicting ways to achieve the overall objective, through
adaptive and self-repairing capabilities.
Future Research Directions: Beyond consensus mech-
anisms and debate among agents for conflict resolution, a
research gap lies in aligning the objectives of individual
agents with system goals to prevent reasoning inconsistency.
Future research should explore adaptive agent policies (e.g.,
using reinforcement learning with specific reward functions
or a hierarchical planning structure) to ensure agents are
continuously re-aligned with the global objective of the hybrid
system. This approach can proactively avoid any contradiction
between agents to invoke the microservices, rather than letting
it happen and then relying on the mentioned conflict resolution
mechanisms.
Research Question 3
How must observation and evaluation be redesigned
within hybrid architectures?
There are two new challenges introduced within hybrid
systems that are not a concern in MS or LLM-MAS.
Challenge 1) Requirement of Extensive Observability:
Hybrid systems require double-sided observation of service-
based aspects (e.g., individual logs, inter-service calls) and
agents properties (e.g., LLM calls, reasoning, belief/reasoning
drift, tools invocation, goal convergence). Furthermore, moni-
toring in LLM-MAS is about understanding the evolving task
and environment state than metrics, and span L1 and L2 of
the reference architecture depicted in Figure 1. Currently, both
MS and LLM-MAS contain their own monitoring stack, each
focused solely on service-based performance or agent-based
dynamics.
Future Research Directions: Despite an enriched ecosys-
tem for the monitoring of MS and LLM-MAS separately (e.g.,
ELK stack, Datadog, OpenTelemetry for MS, and Langfuse,
LangSmith, AgentOps-AI for LLM-MAS), there is a critical
gap in the observability and RCA in hybrid systems. Fur-
ther research and development should focus on extending
the current monitoring tools for granular observability across
agent–service boundaries. For example, trace audits of an
input prompt that spans different agents, how they reason and
collaborate, their interaction with services as external tools,
and what happens in the microservices thereafter using logs
and distributed tracing. Moreover, the classification of failure
modes for LLM-MAS analyzed by incorporating MAST LLM-
as-a-judge pipeline [1] provides insight into the flaws of the
agents and determines problem’s root cause in the MAS part
of the system (e.g., architectural design, inter-agent interaction
issues, inappropriate verification).
Challenge 2) Lack of Hybrid Evaluation Metrics and
Robustness Assessment in Hybrid Systems Benchmarking:
Standard MS metrics (e.g., latency, error rate, throughput)
focus solely on performance-based aspects in execution and
fail to capture emergent and dynamic behaviour. Conversely,
769
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nova Southeastern University. Downloaded on September 04,2026 at 20:12:40 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

[[page 10]]
LLM-MAS specific quality attributes (e.g., task completion,
hallucination rate, goal convergence, and inter-agent reasoning
alignment) lack operational and performance metrics such as
error rates or latency. For example, works such as BattleAgent-
Bench [62], [73], and [74] provide early frameworks and
structured taxonomy for quality assurance methodologies to
evaluate agent reasoning, interactions, and capabilities, but
focus merely on MAS dynamics, lacking integration with
service-oriented metrics, such as combining both reasoning
and performance indicators. In addition to that, deliberate
failure injection to test robustness and resiliency is widely
neglected in the evaluation of LLM-MAS, in contrast to MS.
Future Research Directions: The benchmarks for hy-
brid systems must introduce new metrics measuring both
operational-based perspectives and cognitive performance
(e.g., evaluating reasoning convergence under latency con-
straints, or distinguishing reasoning divergence rate from ex-
ternal error rate). Furthermore, inspired by chaos engineering
for MS, benchmarks for hybrid systems should systematically
and deliberately introduce faults into LLM MAS workflows
or simulate failures in microservices as external tools. This
can proactively identify vulnerabilities before deployment and
assess the resiliency and robustness of the system.
Research Question 4
How to achieve deterministic behaviour and explain-
ability in a hybrid system?
Within a safety-critical business domain, dealing with the
following challenges is of great importance:
Challenge 1) Indeterminism: Microservices are naturally
designed to be deterministic in their responses through well-
tested and hard-coded logic and execution path. Although
factors such as distributed transactions, eventual consistency,
and missed events in asynchronous communication usually
disrupt this behaviour, several well-established techniques
are introduced to deal with these problems and mitigate
indeterminism in large-scale MS (e.g., idempotent operations
in Saga pattern for eventual consistency [29], resiliency in
communications with retry pattern [30]). In contrast, LLM-
MAS suffer from extensive indeterminism primarily due to
the probabilistic nature of LLM, as well as asynchronous
dialogue-based interaction between agents, in L5 of Figure 1.
Therefore, hybridization of both systems may lead to breach-
ing deterministic behaviour as a fundamental aspect. Recent
efforts have been made to improve the robustness of decisions
and support determinism in LLM-MAS, such as ExACT [75],
which proposes techniques such as the inference-time search
algorithm, structured exploration and reflective planning.
Future Research Directions: Although absolute determin-
ism may not be achieved in LLM-MAS, a research gap
lies in defining bounded determinism. A possible direction
of research in hybrid systems would be the development of
techniques to formally specify the probabilistic behaviour of
LLM agents and their impact on microservice interactions
using acceptable ranges. This can provide guarantees even with
inherent variability in the LLM; the hybrid system will remain
within defined safety boundaries. Furthermore, similar to well-
established techniques in MS to mitigate indeterminism, such
as the Saga pattern, LLM agents should dynamically trigger
compensatory actions to enforce consistency and determinism.
Hence, future research should explore a control loop or a
meta-agent which constantly monitors the real-time state of
microservices and actions of agents. In case of any deviation
from the deterministic behaviour, it should detect and trigger a
set of compensation actions (e.g., re-plan agent actions, initiate
recovery mechanism in microservices such as rollback or retry)
to ensure consistency, which can directly lead to determinism.
Challenge 2) Lack of Explainability: Microservices are
interpretable for both developers and non-technical stakehold-
ers through architectural documentation, predefined execution
paths, and best practices in coding. Although when a failure
occurs, the attribution of the error and the analysis of the root
cause are challenging in a large-scale MS. A large number
of research studies have been performed for error attribution
and root cause analysis (RCA) in microservices with various
methods based on metrics, traces, multi-modal data, and LLM
and AI agents [24].
In contrast, Artificial Intelligence (AI) is massively embed-
ded in black-box models such as LLM, leading to growing
concerns in LLM-MAS in the case of transparency and
interpretability, particularly in safety-critical domains [76].
Similar to determinism, this transparency is required in the
orchestration and function encapsulation of agents within the
pipeline and workflow layer (L5) of the reference architecture
in Figure 1. Recent works for applying XAI in LLM-MAS
include automated failure attribution conducted in [77], which
supports explainability and accountability by identifying which
agent caused the failure, under which condition and reasoning
trajectory, and layered prompting in [76], by breaking down
complex reasoning into hierarchical and interpretable steps to
improve transparency.
Future Research Directions: A significant gap is the lack
of a unified explainability framework for the hybrid system,
to provide explanations for decisions from a high-level text
prompt through the agent’s reasoning steps, its choice of
microservices and the resulting interactions with their APIs.
This would involve combining XAI techniques for LLMs with
microservice observability of multi-modal data (e.g., logs,
traces) to provide a complete chain of events in the hybrid
system. Moreover, when a hybrid system fails, error attribution
and root cause analysis between stochastic AI agents and
deterministic microservice components are very challenging.
Therefore, future endeavours should concentrate on extending
current root cause analysis mechanisms for MS to cover
agents’ misreasoning and unexpected invocation of services.
V. C ONCLUSION
Although Microservice Systems (MS) and Multi-Agent
Systems (MAS) based on Large Language Models (LLM-
MAS) are two main paradigms in the development of modern
770
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nova Southeastern University. Downloaded on September 04,2026 at 20:12:40 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

[[page 11]]
software applications, both suffer from their challenges and
are not able to cope with the hybrid requirements of intel-
ligent, modular, and adaptive systems. Furthermore, despite
having different roots and numerous contrasts, MS and LLM-
MAS share important commonalities and transferable patterns,
which can be considered as fundamentals toward designing a
hybrid architecture to benefit the strengths of both paradigms,
although this integration can introduce new challenges. There-
fore, with the help of a comparative study between both MS
and LLM-MAS, we derive four important research questions
to identify the potential challenges and research gaps in each,
and highlight the direction for future endeavours in designing
robust, scalable, and trustworthy hybrid architecture.
REFERENCES
[1] M. Cemri, M. Z. Pan, S. Yang, L. A. Agrawal, B. Chopra, R. Tiwari,
K. Keutzer, A. Parameswaran, D. Klein, K. Ramchandran, M. Zaharia,
J. E. Gonzalez, and I. Stoica, “Why do multi-agent llm systems fail?”
2025. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.13657
[2] X. Li, S. Wang, S. Zeng, Y . Wu, and Y . Yang, “A survey on llm-
based multi-agent systems: Workflow, infrastructure, and challenges,”
Vicinagearth, vol. 1, no. 9, pp. 1–22, 2024. [Online]. Available:
https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s44336-024-00009-2
[3] T. Guo, X. Chen, Y . Wang, R. Chang, S. Pei, N. V . Chawla,
O. Wiest, and X. Zhang, “Large language model based multi-agents:
A survey of progress and challenges,” 2024. [Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.01680
[4] N. Krishnan, “Ai agents: Evolution, architecture, and real-world appli-
cations,” 2025. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.12687
[5] C. Qian, W. Liu, H. Liu, N. Chen, Y . Dang, J. Li, C. Yang, W. Chen,
Y . Su, X. Cong, J. Xu, D. Li, Z. Liu, and M. Sun, “Chatdev:
Communicative agents for software development,” 2024. [Online].
Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.07924
[6] R. M. Aratchige and W. M. K. S. Ilmini, “Llms working
in harmony: A survey on the technological aspects of building
effective llm-based multi agent systems,” 2025. [Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.01963
[7] A. Fourney, G. Bansal, H. Mozannar, C. Tan, E. Salinas, Erkang,
Zhu, F. Niedtner, G. Proebsting, G. Bassman, J. Gerrits, J. Alber,
P. Chang, R. Loynd, R. West, V . Dibia, A. Awadallah, E. Kamar,
R. Hosn, and S. Amershi, “Magentic-one: A generalist multi-
agent system for solving complex tasks,” 2024. [Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04468
[8] L. Sun, Y . Yang, Q. Duan, Y . Shi, C. Lyu, Y .-C. Chang, C.-T. Lin,
and Y . Shen, “Multi-agent coordination across diverse applications: A
survey,” 2025. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.14743
[9] X. Qiu, H. Wang, X. Tan, C. Qu, Y . Xiong, Y . Cheng, Y . Xu, W. Chu,
and Y . Qi, “Towards collaborative intelligence: Propagating intentions
and reasoning for multi-agent coordination with large language models,”
2024. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.12532
[10] G. Zhang, Y . Yue, Z. Li, S. Yun, G. Wan, K. Wang, D. Cheng,
J. X. Yu, and T. Chen, “Cut the crap: An economical communication
pipeline for llm-based multi-agent systems,” 2024. [Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.02506
[11] B. Yan, X. Zhang, L. Zhang, L. Zhang, Z. Zhou, D. Miao,
and C. Li, “Beyond self-talk: A communication-centric survey
of llm-based multi-agent systems,” 2025. [Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.14321
[12] X. Hou, Y . Zhao, S. Wang, and H. Wang, “Model context protocol
(mcp): Landscape, security threats, and future research directions,”
2025. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.23278
[13] C. Zhang, K. Yang, S. Hu, Z. Wang, G. Li, Y . Sun, C. Zhang, Z. Zhang,
A. Liu, S.-C. Zhu, X. Chang, J. Zhang, F. Yin, Y . Liang, and Y . Yang,
“Proagent: Building proactive cooperative agents with large language
models,” 2024. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.11339
[14] Q. Zhou, Z. Zhang, X. Xiang, K. Wang, Y . Wu, and Y . Li,
“Enhancing the general agent capabilities of low-parameter llms
through tuning and multi-branch reasoning,” 2024. [Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.19962
[15] K.-T. Tran, D. Dao, M.-D. Nguyen, Q.-V . Pham, B. O’Sullivan, and
H. D. Nguyen, “Multi-agent collaboration mechanisms: A survey of
llms,” 2025. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.06322
[16] Q. Wu, G. Bansal, J. Zhang, Y . Wu, B. Li, E. Zhu, L. Jiang,
X. Zhang, S. Zhang, J. Liu, A. H. Awadallah, R. W. White,
D. Burger, and C. Wang, “Autogen: Enabling next-gen llm
applications via multi-agent conversation,” 2023. [Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.08155
[17] LangChain Developers, “Langgraph,” 2025, part of LangChain
Framework. [Online]. Available: https://www.langchain.com/langgraph/
[18] CrewAI Developers, “Crewai: The leading multi-agent platform,” 2025,
software Library. [Online]. Available: https://www.crewai.com/
[19] M. Choi, K. Kim, S. Chae, and S. Baek, “An empirical study of
group conformity in multi-agent systems,” 2025. [Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.01332
[20] S. Newman, Building Microservices: Designing Fine-Grained Systems ,
2nd ed. O’Reilly Media, 2021.
[21] “Microservices patterns.” [Online]. Available:
https://microservices.io/patterns/microservices.html
[22] C. M. Aderaldo, N. C. Mendonc ¸a, C. Pahl, and P. Jamshidi, “Benchmark
requirements for microservices architecture research,” in Proceedings
of the 1st International Workshop on Establishing the Community-Wide
Infrastructure for Architecture-Based Software Engineering, ser. ECASE
’17. IEEE Press, 2017, p. 8–13.
[23] L. Pham, H. Zhang, H. Ha, F. Salim, and X. Zhang,
“Rcaeval: A benchmark for root cause analysis of microservice
systems with telemetry data,” 2025. [Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.17015
[24] T. Wang and G. Qi, “A comprehensive survey on root cause analysis
in (micro) services: Methodologies, challenges, and trends,” 2024.
[Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.00803
[25] Microsoft. Choreography pattern. Accessed: 2025-
07-02. [Online]. Available: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-
us/azure/architecture/patterns/choreography
[26] Design apis for microservices. Accessed: 2025-
07-02. [Online]. Available: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-
us/azure/architecture/microservices/design/api-design
[27] Moldstud, “Best practices for managing configuration in
microservices: A comprehensive guide,” Moldstud Articles . [Online].
Available: https://moldstud.com/articles/p-best-practices-for-managing-
configuration-in-microservices-a-comprehensive-guide
[28] AWS Builders, “Ensuring high availability in microservices:
A failover testing journey with aws,” dev.to, 2023. [On-
line]. Available: https://dev.to/aws-builders/ensuring-high-availability-
in-microservices-a-failover-testing-journey-with-aws-4aa5
[29] Microsoft. Saga pattern. Accessed: 2025-07-02. [Online]. Available:
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/patterns/saga
[30] Retry pattern. Accessed: 2025-07-02. [Online]. Available:
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/patterns/retry
[31] Application resiliency patterns. Accessed: 2025-07-02. [Online].
Available: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/architecture/cloud-
native/application-resiliency-patterns
[32] R. Tarafdar, “Building Reliable LLM-Powered Microservices
With Kubernetes on AWS,” https://dzone.com/articles/reliable-llm-
microservices-kubernetes-aws, May 2025, accessed: 2025-07-10.
[33] N. Krishnan, “Advancing multi-agent systems through model context
protocol: Architecture, implementation, and applications,” 2025.
[Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.21030
[34] T. H ¨andler, “Balancing autonomy and alignment: A multi-dimensional
taxonomy for autonomous llm-powered multi-agent architectures,”
2023. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.03659
[35] S. Han, Q. Zhang, Y . Yao, W. Jin, and Z. Xu, “Llm multi-agent
systems: Challenges and open problems,” 2025. [Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03578
[36] C. Jimenez-Romero, A. Yegenoglu, and C. Blum, “Multi-agent systems
powered by large language models: Applications in swarm intelligence,”
2025. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.03800
[37] L. Dong, Q. Lu, and L. Zhu, “Agentops: Enabling observability of llm
agents,” 2024. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.05285
[38] J. Kaur, “Agentops: The next evolution in ai lifecycle
management,” XenonStack Blog , May 2025. [Online]. Available:
https://www.xenonstack.com/blog/agentops-ai
[39] O. Asici Tansu, Gurcan and G. Kardas, “Towards engineering llm-
enhanced multi-agent systems: A critical examination of roles,” 05 2025.
771
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nova Southeastern University. Downloaded on September 04,2026 at 20:12:40 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

[[page 12]]
[40] M. Finio, “What is ai agent orchestration?” IBM
Think Tech News, accessed Jun 2025. [Online]. Available:
https://www.ibm.com/think/topics/ai-agent-orchestration
[41] S. Hong, M. Zhuge, J. Chen, X. Zheng, Y . Cheng, C. Zhang,
J. Wang, Z. Wang, S. K. S. Yau, Z. Lin, L. Zhou, C. Ran,
L. Xiao, C. Wu, and J. Schmidhuber, “Metagpt: Meta programming
for a multi-agent collaborative framework,” 2024. [Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.00352
[42] Y . Yang, H. Chai, S. Shao, Y . Song, S. Qi, R. Rui, and
W. Zhang, “Agentnet: Decentralized evolutionary coordination
for llm-based multi-agent systems,” 2025. [Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.00587
[43] E. Lumer, A. Gulati, V . K. Subbiah, P. H. Basavaraju, and
J. A. Burke, “Scalemcp: Dynamic and auto-synchronizing model
context protocol tools for llm agents,” 2025. [Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.06416
[44] M. A. Haque, J. Williams, S. Siddique, M. H. Islam, H. Ali, K. D.
Gupta, and R. George, “Advanced tool learning and selection system
(atlass): A closed-loop framework using llm,” 2025. [Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.10071
[45] Enterprise Craftsmanship, “Error handling: Exception
or result?” Enterprise Craftsmanship Blog . [Online].
Available: https://enterprisecraftsmanship.com/posts/error-handling-
exception-or-result/
[46] R. Ma, P. Wang, C. Liu, X. Liu, J. Chen, B. Zhang, X. Zhou,
N. Du, and J. Li, “S 2r: Teaching llms to self-verify and
self-correct via reinforcement learning,” 2025. [Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.12853
[47] N. Upadhyaya and R. Sridharamurthy, “Internalized self-
correction for large language models,” 2024. [Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.16653
[48] M. Goyal and P. Bhasin, “Moving from monolithic to
microservices architecture for multi-agent systems,” World
Journal of Advanced Engineering Technology and Sciences ,
vol. 15, no. 1, p. 2119–2124, Apr. 2025. [Online]. Available:
http://dx.doi.org/10.30574/wjaets.2025.15.1.0480
[49] M. Niswar, R. Safruddin, A. Bustamin, and I. Aswad, “Performance
evaluation of microservices communication with rest, graphql, and grpc,”
International Journal of Electronics and Telecommunications , pp. 429–
436, 06 2024.
[50] Y . Yang, H. Chai, Y . Song, S. Qi, M. Wen, N. Li, J. Liao, H. Hu, J. Lin,
G. Chang, W. Liu, Y . Wen, Y . Yu, and W. Zhang, “A survey of ai agent
protocols,” 2025. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.16736
[51] Anthropic, “Model context protocol (mcp),” Anthropic
News, 2023, accessed: 2025-05-13. [Online]. Available:
https://www.anthropic.com/news/model-context-protocol
[52] Google Developers, “A2a: A new era of agent interoper-
ability,” Google Developers Blog, 2024, accessed: 2025-05-13.
[Online]. Available: https://developers.googleblog.com/en/a2a-a-new-
era-of-agent-interoperability/
[53] Agent Communication Protocol Developers, “Agent communi-
cation protocol: Introduction,” Agent Communication Protocol
Documentation, 2023, accessed: 2025-05-13. [Online]. Available:
https://agentcommunicationprotocol.dev/introduction/welcome
[54] BDCC Global, “Devops and microservices: Best practices for
scalable cloud applications,” BDCC Global Blog . [Online].
Available: https://www.bdccglobal.com/blog/devops-microservices-best-
practices-scalable-cloud/
[55] Infosys, “Agentops: Agentic lifecycle management for
ai agents,” Infosys Knowledge Institute . [Online]. Avail-
able: https://www.infosys.com/iki/research/agentops-agentic-lifecycle-
management.html
[56] H. Ahmad, C. Treude, M. Wagner, and C. Szabo,
“Towards resource-efficient reactive and proactive auto-scaling
for microservice architectures,” Journal of Systems and
Software, vol. 225, p. 112390, 2025. [Online]. Available:
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0164121225000585
[57] C. Meng, S. Song, H. Tong, M. Pan, and Y . Yu, “Deepscaler:
Holistic autoscaling for microservices based on spatiotemporal gnn
with adaptive graph learning,” in Proceedings of the 38th IEEE/ACM
International Conference on Automated Software Engineering , ser.
ASE ’23. IEEE Press, 2024, p. 53–65. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1109/ASE56229.2023.00038
[58] H. X. Nguyen, S. Zhu, and M. Liu, “Graph-phpa: Graph-based proactive
horizontal pod autoscaling for microservices using lstm-gnn,” in 2022
IEEE 11th International Conference on Cloud Networking (CloudNet) ,
2022, pp. 237–241.
[59] Q. Wang, T. Wang, Z. Tang, Q. Li, N. Chen, J. Liang, and
B. He, “Megaagent: A large-scale autonomous llm-based multi-
agent system without predefined sops,” 2025. [Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.09955
[60] J. Hu, Y . Dong, S. Ao, Z. Li, B. Wang, L. Singh, G. Cheng,
S. D. Ramchurn, and X. Huang, “Position: Towards a responsible
llm-empowered multi-agent systems,” 2025. [Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.01714
[61] E. Y . Chang and L. Geng, “Sagallm: Context management, validation,
and transaction guarantees for multi-agent llm planning,” 2025.
[Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.11951
[62] W. Wang, D. Zhang, T. Feng, B. Wang, and J. Tang, “Battleagentbench:
A benchmark for evaluating cooperation and competition capabilities
of language models in multi-agent systems,” 2024. [Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.15971
[63] S. Li, H. Zhang, Z. Jia, C. Zhong, C. Zhang, Z. Shan, J. Shen,
and M. A. Babar, “Understanding and addressing quality attributes of
microservices architecture: A systematic literature review,” Information
and Software Technology, vol. 131, p. 106449, 2021. [Online]. Available:
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584920301993
[64] V . Bushong, A. S. Abdelfattah, A. A. Maruf, D. Das, A. Lehman,
E. Jaroszewski, M. Coffey, T. Cerny, K. Frajtak, P. Tisnovsky, and
M. Bures, “On microservice analysis and architecture evolution: A
systematic mapping study,” Applied Sciences , vol. 11, no. 17, 2021.
[Online]. Available: https://www.mdpi.com/2076-3417/11/17/7856
[65] S. Chen, Y . Liu, W. Han, W. Zhang, and T. Liu, “A survey on llm-based
multi-agent system: Recent advances and new frontiers in application,”
2025. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.17481
[66] B. Xia, Q. Lu, L. Zhu, Z. Xing, D. Zhao, and H. Zhang, “Evaluation-
driven development of llm agents: A process model and reference
architecture,” 2025. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.13768
[67] R. Feldt and R. Coppola, “Semantic api alignment: Linking
high-level user goals to apis,” 2024. [Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.04236
[68] A. S. Abdelfattah, K. E. Cordes, A. Medina, and T. Cerny, “Semantic
dependency in microservice architecture: A framework for definition and
detection,” 2025. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.11787
[69] D. Hahm, W. Jin, J. S. Choi, S. Ahn, and K. Lee, “Enhancing llm
agent safety via causal influence prompting,” 2025. [Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.00979
[70] X. Zhu, Y . Xie, Y . Liu, Y . Li, and W. Hu, “Knowledge graph-
guided retrieval augmented generation,” 2025. [Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.06864
[71] Z. Duan and J. Wang, “Enhancing multi-agent consensus through
third-party llm integration: Analyzing uncertainty and mitigating
hallucinations in large language models,” 2024. [Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.16189
[72] T. Ju, B. Wang, H. Fei, M.-L. Lee, W. Hsu, Y . Li, Q. Wang, P. Cheng,
Z. Wu, Z. Zhang, and G. Liu, “Investigating the adaptive robustness
with knowledge conflicts in llm-based multi-agent systems,” 2025.
[Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.15153
[73] I. Shamim and R. Singhal, “Methodology for quality assurance
testing of llm-based multi-agent systems,” in Proceedings of the 4th
International Conference on AI-ML Systems , ser. AIMLSystems ’24.
New York, NY , USA: Association for Computing Machinery, 2025.
[Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/3703412.3703439
[74] A. Yehudai, L. Eden, A. Li, G. Uziel, Y . Zhao, R. Bar-Haim, A. Cohan,
and M. Shmueli-Scheuer, “Survey on evaluation of llm-based agents,”
2025. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.16416
[75] X. Yu, B. Peng, V . Vajipey, H. Cheng, M. Galley, J. Gao,
and Z. Yu, “Exact: Teaching ai agents to explore with
reflective-mcts and exploratory learning,” 2025. [Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.02052
[76] M. Sanwal, “Layered chain-of-thought prompting for multi-agent llm
systems: A comprehensive approach to explainable large language
models,” 2025. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.18645
[77] S. Zhang, M. Yin, J. Zhang, J. Liu, Z. Han, J. Zhang, B. Li, C. Wang,
H. Wang, Y . Chen, and Q. Wu, “Which agent causes task failures and
when? on automated failure attribution of llm multi-agent systems,”
2025. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.00212
772
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nova Southeastern University. Downloaded on September 04,2026 at 20:12:40 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.