[[page 1]]
Human-In-the-Loop Software Development Agents
Wannita Takerngsaksiri∗, Jirat Pasuksmit†, Patanamon Thongtanunam‡, Chakkrit Tantithamthavorn∗,
Ruixiong Zhang†, Fan Jiang†, Jing Li†, Evan Cook†, Kun Chen†, Ming Wu†
∗Monash University, Australia.
‡The University of Melbourne, Australia.
†Atlassian, Australia.
Abstract—Recently, Large Language Models (LLMs)-based
multi-agent paradigms for software engineering are introduced
to automatically resolve software development tasks (e.g., from a
given issue to source code). However, existing work is evaluated
based on historical benchmark datasets, rarely considers human
feedback at each stage of the automated software development
process, and has not been deployed in practice. In this paper, we
introduce a Human-in-the-loop LLM-based Agents framework
(HULA) for software development that allows software engineers
to refine and guide LLMs when generating coding plans and
source code for a given task. We design, implement, and deploy
the HULA framework into Atlassian JIRA for internal uses.
Through a multi-stage evaluation of the HULA framework,
Atlassian software engineers perceive that HULA can minimize
the overall development time and effort, especially in initiating a
coding plan and writing code for straightforward tasks. On the
other hand, challenges around code quality remain a concern in
some cases. We draw lessons learned and discuss opportunities
for future work, which will pave the way for the advancement
of LLM-based agents in software development.
Index Terms—Large Language Models, Human-in-the-loop,
LLM-based Agents, Software Development
I. I NTRODUCTION
Multi-agent paradigm, powered by Large Language Mod-
els (LLMs), has demonstrated remarkable results in many
research areas [1], including software engineering [2]–[4].
Within the software engineering context, an LLM-based multi-
agent is defined as an autonomous agent (e.g., an LLM
model) receiving inputs from the surrounding environment
(e.g., compilers, linter tools) and performing actions (e.g.,
writing code, fixing bugs) to achieve a specific objective (e.g.,
resolving a pull request, passing test cases). The agent will be
assigned with a role (e.g., software engineer, software tester)
as part of the software development process with access to
external resources (e.g., compilers, linters). With this LLM-
based multi-agent paradigm, they are able to solve complex
software development tasks for a given input and a goal.
Recently, various LLM-based software development agent
frameworks are proposed to address complex software devel-
opment tasks [5]–[11]. However, existing LLM-based soft-
ware development work is (1) evaluated based on historical
benchmark datasets of open-source software projects, (2) does
not consider human feedback at each stage of the automated
software development process, and (3) has not been deployed
in practice. These challenges raise important questions of
whether the effectiveness of LLM-based software development
agents can be generalised beyond the context of open-source
software projects, how acceptable the plans and code generated
by LLM-based software development agents at each stage
of the software development process, and how practitioners
perceive the benefits and challenges of using LLM-based
software development agent.
In this paper, we introduce a Hu man-in-the-Loop LLM-
based Software Development Agent Framework (HULA). Our
framework consists of three agents: AI Planner Agent, AI
Coding Agent, and Human Agent, working cooperatively to
achieve the common goal of resolving a JIRA issue (i.e.,
a software development task). We design the user interface,
implement, and deploy HULA into Atlassian JIRA for internal
uses. To evaluate its effectiveness, our evaluation consists of
three stages: (1) an offline evaluation of HULA without human
feedback using SWE-Bench and our internal dataset of 369
JIRA issues; (2) an online evaluation of HULA augmented
by human feedback using real-world 663 JIRA issues; and
(3) an investigation of the practitioners’ perceptions on the
benefits and challenges of using HULA in practice. Through
the multi-stage evaluation of our HULA through real-world
deployment and user studies among Atlassian practitioners, we
answer the following three research questions:
RQ1) (Offline) What is the effectiveness of our HULA?
For SWE-bench, AI Planner Agent can correctly iden-
tify files that need to be changed, achieving an average
recall of 86% per issue, while AI Coding Agent can
correctly generate code that is similar to the human-
written code (i.e., ground-truth) with an average simi-
larity score of 45%. On the other hand, when applying
Agents to the Atlassian internal dataset, AI Planner
Agent achieves an average recall of 30% per issue,
while AI Coding Agent achieves an average similarity
score of 30%. We observed that our JIRA issues tend
to be shorter than the open-source software projects.
RQ2) (Online) To what extent do practitioners agree with
the generation by HULA when considering human
feedback?
Based on the online evaluation of HULA, plans are
successfully generated for 527 out of the 663 real-
world JIRA issues. Of these, practitioners approved
the generated plans for 433 out of 527 plan-generated
issues, achieving a plan approval rate of 82%. During
the coding stage, pull requests (PRs) were created for
95 out of 376 code-generated issues, achieving a raised
342
2025 IEEE/ACM 47th International Conference on Software Engineering: Software Engineering in Practice (ICSE-SEIP)
2832-7659/25/$31.00 ©2025 IEEE
DOI 10.1109/ICSE-SEIP66354.2025.00036
2025 IEEE/ACM 47th International Conference on Software Engineering: Software Engineering in Practice (ICSE-SEIP) | 979-8-3315-3685-5/25/$31.00 ©2025 IEEE | DOI: 10.1109/ICSE-SEIP66354.2025.00036
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nova Southeastern University. Downloaded on September 04,2026 at 19:59:52 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

[[page 2]]
PR rate of 25%. Of these, 56 PRs were successfully
merged, leading to a merged PR rate of 59%. These
results highlight the success of the HULA framework
where human feedback is incorporated into practice.
RQ3) (Survey) What are the practitioners’ perceptions of
using HULA in practice?
41% of participants agreed that the generated plan by
HULA aligned accurately with the issue description.
While HULA still requires human involvement to
ensure the generated code completely addresses the
task, 61% of the participants agreed that the generated
code was easy to read and modify, which helped reduce
their initial development time and effort. Additionally,
participants acknowledged that HULA promotes good
documentation practice, though this requires more ef-
fort to provide detailed issue descriptions.
Contributions: To the best of our knowledge, this paper is
the first to present:
• The human-in-the-loop LLM-based software develop-
ment agents framework (HULA) integrated into Atlas-
sian JIRA (Section IV).
• The multi-stage evaluation of LLM-based software devel-
opment agents, focusing on offline and online evaluation,
together with practitioners’ survey among Atlassian prac-
titioners (Section V).
• The findings, lessons learned, and future directions from
the multi-stage evaluation and deployment of HULA in
practice (Section VI).
Paper Organization. The paper is organized as follows.
Section II describes the software development workflow at
Atlassian. Section III discusses related works and limitations.
Section IV presents HULA framework. Section V presents
the multi-stage evaluation framework. Section VI presents
our results. Section VII discusses the lessons learned and
future directions. Section VIII discloses the threats to validity.
Finally, Section IX draws the conclusion.
II. S OFTWARE DEVELOPMENT WORKFLOW AT ATLASSIAN
Atlassian is an enterprise software company that develops
products for software development, project management, team
collaboration, and many more. Atlassian offers tools such
as JIRA Software (for task management), Confluence (for
collaboration and knowledge management), and Bitbucket (for
source code management) to enhance software teams’ pro-
ductivity, streamline workflows, and facilitate Agile method-
ologies across various industries. These products serve over
300,000 customers globally, spanning various industries such
as technology, finance, healthcare, and government.
At Atlassian, practitioners use JIRA 1 as a central tool for
managing software development tasks, tracking bugs, and
facilitating collaboration across teams. First, they will create
JIRA issues to define features, tasks, or bug fixes to work on.
Then, JIRA issues will be assigned to individual practitioners
or teams. Once they start working on the given JIRA issue,
1https://www.atlassian.com/software/jira
practitioners will create a coding plan (e.g., which files need to
be modified or fixed?, where to fix a bug?), aiming to identify
files that are relevant to the given JIRA issue (i.e., code or bug
localization). Then, they will start the coding process. Once
the coding process is finished, they will raise a pull request
for code review and automated testing, ensuring that each pull
request is of sufficient quality before integrating it into the
main repository.
In 2024, Atlassian had over 12,000 engineers submitting
over 950,000 pull requests. Since these processes are generally
done manually, the teams are prone to productivity challenges,
e.g., an overwhelming backlog of JIRA issues and context
switching between tools. These challenges can result in delays
and inefficiencies in software delivery, prompting Atlassian
teams to seek automated solutions that can streamline work-
flows and improve their overall productivity.
III. R ELATED WORKS AND LIMITATIONS
Automated software development tools and techniques,
powered by deep learning (DL) or large language models
(LLMs), are proposed to assist software engineers in various
software development tasks (e.g., bug localization [12]–[14],
code completion [15], [16], code generation [8], [10], test
case generation [17], [18], code review automation [19]–
[22], vulnerability detection and repair [23]–[26]). However,
these automated software development tools and techniques
are mainly designed to tackle individual SE tasks, leading to
suboptimal performance when applied to real-world software
development tasks.
Recently, an LLM-based multi-agent paradigm for software
engineering has emerged [2]. The multi-agent paradigm for
software engineering involves multiple autonomous agents,
each with specific roles (e.g., software engineer, testers) and
goals (e.g., writing code, writing test cases), working together
to solve complex problems. Various LLM-based software de-
velopment agent frameworks are proposed to resolve complex
software development tasks [5]–[11]. For example, Yang et
al. [5] proposed SWE-agent, an LLM-based agent built on
top of a Linux shell, enabling the agent to effectively search,
navigate, edit, and execute code commands. Zhang et al. [6]
proposed AutoCodeRover, an LLM-based agent with code
search on AST (i.e., Abstract Syntax Tree) and spectrum-
based fault localization using a test suite. Ma et al. [11] pro-
posed RepoUnderstander, an LLM-based agent with a Monte
Carlo tree search-based exploration strategy on the repository
knowledge graph. Tao et al. [8] proposed Magis, a multi-agent
framework with four customized roles: manager, repository
custodian, developer, and quality assurance engineer. Chen et
al. [7] proposed CodeR, a multi-agent framework with pre-
defined task graphs. Arora et al. [10] proposed Masai, a
modular framework that divided the problem into multiple sub-
problems for LLM-based agents.
Limitations. However, existing LLM-based software de-
velopment work is (1) evaluated based on historical bench-
mark datasets, limiting the understanding of its effectiveness
in the context of resolving enterprise software development
343
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nova Southeastern University. Downloaded on September 04,2026 at 19:59:52 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

[[page 3]]
tasks; (2) rarely considering human feedback at each stage
of the automated software development process, limiting the
understanding of the practitioners’ acceptability of the plans
and code generated by LLM-based software development
agent at each stage to resolve enterprise software development
tasks; and (3) has not been deployed in practice, limiting the
understanding of practitioners’ perceptions on the benefits and
challenges of using LLM-based software development agent.
IV. HULA: H UMAN -IN-THE -LOOP LLM- BASED AGENTS
FRAMEWORK FOR SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT
In this section, we present a human-in-the-loop LLM-based
agent framework for software development.
At Atlassian, human intelligence (i.e., the expertise of
practitioners) and human authority (i.e., the human ability
to rule AI agents) are highly valued. Therefore, rather than
aiming to fully automate software development tasks, we
designed an LLM-based software development agent to col-
laborate with practitioners, functioning as an assistant to help
resolve software development tasks, promoting the Human-
AI synergy [27], [28]. We envision that in the future of
software development, practitioners and LLM-based software
development agents should work collaboratively to complete
software development tasks. Thus, we design our HULA
framework to incorporate human feedback at each step of the
software development tasks. This allows practitioners to pro-
vide feedback and guidance as needed, ensuring the software
development process remains collaborative rather than entirely
reliant on fully autonomous agents.
Below, we present the overview of our HULA framework
(see Figure 1) and the user interface of HULA being seam-
lessly integrated into Atlassian JIRA (see Figure 2).
A. Framework
The ultimate goal of our human-in-the-loop LLM-based
software development agent framework is to generate a pull
request (i.e., a set of code changes) based on a given software
development task (i.e., a JIRA issue). Since software develop-
ment tasks for enterprise systems are complex, we exploit a
multi-stage method to dissect the software development task
into distinct stages, namely, file localization (i.e., which files
should be changed?), plan generation (i.e., how each file
should be changed), and coding (i.e, what are the suggested
code changes?). Formally speaking, our framework consists of
the following three agents:
• AI Planner Agent (P ) is an LLM model receiving inputs
(i.e., a JIRA issue and the source code repository) to
identify the more relevant files that are associated with
the given JIRA issue (i.e., file localization [13], [14],
[29]). Then, the LLM model uses the list of relevant files
and the JIRA issue to generate a coding plan (e.g., “add
tests for the add subfigure method”).
• AI Coding Agent (C ) is an LLM model receiving inputs
(i.e., the coding plan) to generate a set of code changes.
• Human Agent (H ) is a software engineer assigned to the
given task. The human agent will provide feedback and
work cooperatively with AI agents, particularly, review-
ing and editing the plan and the code, and raising PRs,
to achieve the common goal (i.e., resolve a JIRA issue).
With the Human-AI synergy in mind, we leverage a human-
AI agent coordination paradigm, exploiting human intelligence
in each stage to enhance the effectiveness of the multi-
agent system for software development and facilitate better
alignment with human preference. Different from the other
multi-agent systems that leverage competitive, mixed, or hier-
archical coordination styles without human involvement, our
framework exploits the cooperative communication style with
the Decentralized Planning Decentralized Execution (DPDE)
paradigm to ensure that each AI agent is independently re-
sponsible for its own objective and capabilities while being
able to work cooperatively with human agents to achieve the
common goal. Although we exploit the DPDE paradigm (i.e.,
no communication among agents), all Agents still have access
to the shared memory of information (i.e., the JIRA issue and
the source code repository). The merit of this approach lies in
minimal communication overhead, reducing the computational
resources on the central LLM, and enhancing the Agents’
adaptability, as each agent can quickly adjust its behaviour
based on local information and human feedback. This makes
our framework better suited for dynamic and unpredictable
environments while promoting human-AI synergy.
Our framework consists of the following four stages.
Stage 1 Setting up a task: A software engineer begins
the workflow by selecting a development task (i.e., a JIRA
issue) and an associated code repository. Generally, the issue
description contains necessary documented information for
humans to understand the work to be done, e.g., a user story,
definition of done, acceptance criteria, or code examples [30].
Stage 2 Planning: AI Planner Agent (P ) uses information
in the JIRA issue (i.e., the issue summary and description) to
understand the work to be done and the context and identify
files that are relevant to the given JIRA issue. The software
engineer can review, edit, and confirm the information be-
fore proceeding to the next step. Once the relevant files are
determined, the AI Planner Agent generates a coding plan,
outlining how the code in the identified files should be changed
to resolve the given JIRA issue. For example, “Add tests for
the add subfigure method”. After the coding plan is generated,
the Human Agent (H ) can review the plan, provide additional
instructions, and re-generate the coding plan. Alternatively, the
Human Agent (H) can directly modify the list of relevant files,
and edit the change plan for each file.
Stage 3 Coding: Once the Human Agent (H) approves the
coding plan, the LLM-based agent proceeds to the execution of
the given coding plan. The AI Coding Agent (C ) generates the
code changes to each file according to the plan. The Human
Agent (H ) can then review the proposed code changes. If
the code change does not meet the expectation, the Human
Agent (H ) can provide further instructions to change the
code and then ask the AI Coding Agent (C ) to re-generate
the code changes. To ensure that the code being generated
is syntactically correct with high code quality [15], the AI
344
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nova Southeastern University. Downloaded on September 04,2026 at 19:59:52 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

[[page 4]]
Generate a CodeRefine a Code
{Jira issue}
{Code repository} 
{Relevant 
files}
{Plan} {Code change}+
Human 
Agent
{Pull Request}
Steps Prepare an Input Generate a Plan Review a Plan Raise a PR
Human 
feedback
Human 
feedback
Tools 
feedback
Stages 1. Setting up a task 2. Planning 4. Raising a PR3. Coding
LLM-based
Agent
File localization2.1 Creating a coding plan2.2 Implementing code3.1
Fig. 1. An Overview of our Hu man-in-the-Loop LLM-based Software Development A gents Framework (HULA), consisting of three agents (i.e., AI Planner
Agent, AI Coding Agent, and Human Agent) work cooperatively to achieve the common goal of resolving a JIRA issue.
>
 >>
1. Setting up a task: 
To refine the issue task 
and select the code repository.
2. Planning: 
To review, refine, and re-generate the plan.
3. Coding: 
To review, refine and re-generate the code.
4. Raising a PR: 
To checkout a code branch 
or raise a pull request.
Relevant Files
Plan
Human Feedback on Plan
Jira Issue
Code Repository
Human Feedback on Code
Code Change
AI Agent
AI Agent
AI Agent
AI Agent
AI Agent AI Agent
AI Agent
Fig. 2. The user interface of our human-in-the-loop LLM-based agent framework, seamlessly integrated into Atlassian JIRA.
Coding Agent (C ) undertakes self-refinement, improving the
generated code based on feedback from code validation tools
such as compilers and linters. The refinement is conducted
iteratively until the code successfully passes the validation
tools or the maximum number of attempts is reached.
Stage 4 Raising a Pull Request: Once the Human Agent
(H) agrees with the code change, the generated code changes
are created as a pull request (PR) to BitBucket for review by
other practitioners. Alternatively, the Human Agent (H ) can
create a new code branch from the generated code to make
modifications prior to the PR creation.
V. T HE MULTI-STAGE EVALUATION OF HULA IN
REAL -WORLD DEPLOYMENT
In this section, we introduce the multi-stage evaluation
framework for evaluating our HULA in real-world deploy-
ment. Our evaluation aims to answer the following three
research questions.
• RQ1: What is the effectiveness of our HULA?
• RQ2: To what extent do practitioners agree with the
generation by HULA when considering human feedback?
• RQ3: What are the practitioners’ perceptions of using
HULA in practice?
To answer these research questions, our evaluation consists
of three stages, i.e., offline evaluation, online evaluation, and
practitioner survey. The main purpose of offline evaluation
is to validate the performance of HULA prior to the actual
deployment. Since the offline evaluation did not incorporate
human feedback and cannot capture the real-world usage, we
conducted an online evaluation to investigate how practitioners
use HULA in practice. However, the online evaluation still
345
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nova Southeastern University. Downloaded on September 04,2026 at 19:59:52 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

[[page 5]]
When Pre-deployment
Stages 1. Offline Evaluation
June
2. Online Evaluation
September
3. Survey
Initial 
Trials
(n=45)
Deployment
(n=260~2600)
Surveys
(n=146)
July-mid Sept
SWE-bench (n=500)
Internal Dataset (n=369)
Fig. 3. An Overview of our Multi-stage Evaluation of HULA.
lacks the user perception. To address this, we run a practitioner
survey to investigate the performance of HULA from user
perspectives. Below, we present the research methodology for
each stage of the evaluation (see Figure 3).
A. Stage 1: Offline Evaluation
The offline evaluation based on benchmark datasets allows
us to preliminary assess the performance of HULA to ensure
that it achieves an acceptable performance before deployment.
Note that we did not include human feedback for this offline
experiment to fully automate the evaluation process.
Benchmark Datasets: To conduct an offline evaluation, we
need high-quality benchmark datasets that provide sufficient
information of the work to be done and human-written code
solutions for diverse programming languages. Thus, we use
the SWE-bench dataset which provides high-quality datasets
for Python programming language. Then, we collected de-
velopment issues at Atlassian to evaluate the effectiveness of
HULA in an industrial setting that also covers diverse contexts
and programming languages. Table I provides an overview
statistics of our benchmark datasets.
• SWE-bench Verified [31] is a subset of SWE-bench [32]
that has been verified for appropriately scoped unit tests
and well-specified issue descriptions by human annota-
tors. The dataset consists of 500 development tasks (i.e.,
Github issues), corresponding code solutions, and unit
tests written by developers. The dataset is collected from
12 open-source Python repositories on GitHub, including
various types of development tasks like bug reports, code
refactoring suggestions, and feature requests.
• Internal dataset is a collection of completed development
tasks (i.e., JIRA issues) at Atlassian. We randomly sam-
pled issues from JIRA Software with the corresponding
pull requests (PRs) from BitBucket. In total, our inter-
nal dataset contains 369 JIRA issues from 94 software
repositories. The issues’ context ranges from front-end
developments, back-end developments, data analytics,
security patches, product migrations, configuration up-
dates, bug fixes, and more. The code solutions in PRs
involve various file types with more than 10 programming
languages including TypeScript, Java, Kotlin, and Python.
Metrics: To evaluate the performance of HULA based
on the benchmark datasets, we focus on the following four
aspects: success generation rate, file localization, functionality
correctness, and the similarity of the generated code and the
TABLE I
A STATISTICS SUMMARY OF BENCHMARK DATASETS .
Dataset Data Min Median Max
SWE-bench
Verified
(n=500)
Issue Information (token) 24 295 6,939
Changed files (count) 2 2 22
Human-written code (token) 89 220 5,057
Internal
(n=369)
Issue Information (token) 11 75 1,114
Changed files (count) 1 3 44
Human-written code (token) 82 1,275 47,520
ground truth source code (i.e., human-written code changes).
To do so, we input each JIRA issue into our HULA framework
and measure the generated plans and code based on the
following five metrics:
• %Issues for Success Generation measures the percentage
of issues that HULA can successfully generate plans and
code, completing all of the steps in the workflow (see
Figure 1) (i.e., success generation). Otherwise, if HULA
fails at any step in the workflow and is unable to produce
the final code changes, we consider it as unsuccessful.
• Recall of File Localization measures the percentage of
correct files that need to be changed for a given issue.
• %Issues for Perfect File Localization measures the per-
centage of issues that achieve a perfect file localization
(i.e., all files recommended by AI Planner Agent are
exactly the same as the actual files that need to be
changed—no false positives and no false negatives).
• %Issues for Perfect Passing Test Cases measures the
percentage of issues that achieve 100% of passing all
corresponding unit test cases (i.e., functionality correct).
Due to the unavailability of unit testing in our internal
dataset, this measure is only applicable to the SWE-bench
Verified dataset only, not our internal dataset.
• %Issues of High Code Similarity measures the percentage
of issues that the AI-generated code is highly similar to
the ground-truth human-written code. Code similarity is
used as a proxy to determine if the code being generated
is highly similar to the ground-truth human-written code,
due to the absence of the test cases in our internal dataset.
Typically, human involvement is typically required to
determine if the code is similar or not, yet it is very
expensive in practice. Recently, CodeBERTScore [33] or
BERTScore [34] are widely used in software engineering
to evaluate code similarity. However, these techniques are
designed for BERT-like architectures, limiting its input
length to only 512 tokens, which does not cover the
typical size of the human-written code (i.e., a median
of 1,275 tokens for our internal dataset). Following the
LLM-as-a-Judge principle [35], we exploit GPT-4 as
a judge to measure the similarity between the source
code and the ground-truth, given the corresponding JIRA
issue as a context. After iterations of prompt refinement,
we develop a prompt instruction containing <prompt,
issue, generated code, ground-truth code>to generate the
similarity score ranging from 1 (no similarity), 2 (weak
similarity), 3 (high similarity), to 4 (highly similarity).
346
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nova Southeastern University. Downloaded on September 04,2026 at 19:59:52 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

[[page 6]]
Any issue that achieves a code similarity score of 3 to 4
is considered high code similarity.
B. Stage 2: Online Evaluation
We conducted an online evaluation to assess the perfor-
mance of HULA in the actual development practice with
practitioners at Atlassian. This evaluation allows us to gain
further insights from actual usage conditions.
Internal Deployment: To avoid interruption in the day-to-
day work of Atlassian practitioners, we opted to deploy this
new technology carefully as per the following steps. First,
we conducted initial trials with a small group of software
engineers from two software development teams to gain initial
feedback. After ensuring positive feedback from the first
group, we gradually deploy HULA with a broader group of
practitioners. Figure 2 shows an example of HULA workflow
that integrated into a JIRA issue.
Initial Trials. We deployed HULA to a small group of
software engineers (called an alpha group). This alpha group
comprises 45 engineers across two software development
teams working on different products. We made HULA avail-
able to the alpha group for two weeks and monitored the usage,
performance, and reliability. We also collected feedback from
the alpha group to gain deeper insights into user experiences
and the quality of the generated code. The feedback of the
alpha groups is mainly related to the user interfaces and
experience of HULA. We conducted several iterations of trials
to stabilize the design of our HULA workflow.
Deployment. After improving HULA based on initial trials,
we expanded the deployment to broader Atlassian teams. To
minimize impacts to large teams, we implemented a gradual,
incremental deployment. We began rolling out HULA to
practitioners in early July 2024, starting with 260 practitioners.
By mid-September 2024, the deployment expanded to 2,600
practitioners. In total, HULA were made available to more
than 22,000 eligible issues.
Metrics: In this online evaluation, we observe the effective-
ness of HULA using the real-world user interaction measured
by the following metrics:
• Plan Generation Rate measures the percentage of issues
that HULA can generate a coding plan, compared to the
total number of issues with attempted plan generation.
• Plan Approval Rate measures the percentage of issues
that practitioners approve the generated coding plan of
HULA, compared to the total number of issues with
successful plan generation.
• Code Generation Rate measures the percentage of issues
that HULA can complete the workflow and generate code
changes, compared to the total number of issues with
attempted code generation.
• Raised PR Rate measures the percentage of issues that
practitioners clicked to raise a pull-request (PRs) based
on HULA-generated code, compared to the total number
of issues with successful code generation.
• Merged PR Rate measures the percentage of issues with
PRs that practitioners select to merge the PRs into the
TABLE II
SURVEY QUESTIONS (EXCLUDING DEMOGRAPHICS QUESTIONS ).
Item Question
The performance of HULA
Please rate your satisfaction with the following aspects of Autodev.
Q1‡ The identified files are relevant to the issue description.
Q2‡ The identified files align with how I would have approached this issue.
Q3‡ The changes to the identified files align accurately with the issue
description.
Q4‡ The changes to the identified files align accurately with how I would
have approached this issue.
Q5‡ The generated code can be easily understood and modified to solve
the issue.
Q6‡ The generated code accurately solves the issue.
Q7‡ The generated code contains no defects and fulfils non-functional
requirements.
Q8‡ The generated code change is complete and fully addresses the issue.
Feedback for HULA
Q9* What are the main benefits you received from using Autodev?
Q10* What are the main challenges you experienced from using Autodev?
Q11* How can we improve Autodev for you?
‡ Likert scale of agreement: ⃝ Strongly agree, ⃝ Somewhat agree, ⃝ Neutral,
⃝ Somewhat disagree, ⃝ Strongly disagree
* Optional open-ended questions.
repository’s main branch, compared to the total number
of issues with a PR raised.
C. Stage 3: Practitioners’ Survey
To gather deeper insights on HULA quality and feedback,
we conducted an online survey with practitioners who have
used HULA to generate code (i.e., reach the refine code
step) at least once. The survey is designed to capture the
performance of HULA in the internal deployment and to
gather the user perceptions (e.g., benefits, challenges, and
areas of improvement). We conduct the pilot survey with five
software engineers to validate and refine the questions prior to
the full launch. In the full launch, we sent a survey invitation
directly to the practitioners via Slack communication.
Survey. The survey began with demographic questions to
collect background information of participants on their job
titles, experiences in IT, experiences with AI coding assistants,
and the frequency of usage on HULA. Next, the participants
were asked to rate their level of satisfaction with the accuracy
and effectiveness of HULA in the planning and coding stages.
Finally, they were asked to provide their perceptions through
open-ended questions. Excluding the demographic questions,
the survey consists of 11 questions (see Table II).
Analysis. To analyze the open-ended responses, the first and
the second authors conducted an open coding [36] analysis in
an online session to extract corresponding themes of each re-
sponse. This was followed by three rounds of card sorting [37]
with the predefined themes to systematically categorize the
responses into categories. We assessed the inter-rater reliability
by calculating Cohen’s Kappa coefficient [38]. The mean score
of Kappa values across open-ended questions is 0.67, reflecting
a substantial level of agreement among the evaluators.
VI. R ESULTS
In this section, we present the results according to our
research questions.
347
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nova Southeastern University. Downloaded on September 04,2026 at 19:59:52 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

[[page 7]]
RQ1: What is the effectiveness of our HULA ?
Table III shows the evaluation results based on SWE-bench
and the internal datasets. Specifically, Table III shows that
HULA can complete the generation workflow for 97% of the
issues in the SWE-bench dataset and 100% of the issues in our
internal dataset. This indicates that HULA has high success
in the generation. We now discuss the effectiveness of HULA
in each benchmark dataset.
Table III shows that HULA can correctly identify all the
files (i.e., Perfect File Localization) for 84% of the issues
in SWE-bench. The code generated by HULA achieved a
similarity score of 45% compared to human-written code and
passed the unit tests for 31% of the issues. This performance
is comparable to SWE-agent Claude, which ranks 6th on the
leaderboard as of 26 September 2024. These results indicate
that HULA performs reasonably well on SWE-bench.
Table III shows that HULA achieved a perfect file lo-
calization on 15% of the issues and a high similarity score
compared to human-written code on 30% of the issues in
our internal dataset. The lower performance could be due to
various factors. One possible factor is the diversity of the data.
The SWE-bench dataset is limited to the Python programming
language, whereas our internal dataset includes more than 10
programming languages and over 20 file types. Moreover,
the SWE-bench dataset was collected from 12 open-source
software repositories, while our internal dataset was sourced
from 94 software repositories. This increased diversity in pro-
gramming languages and repositories may challenge the LLM
agent’s generalizability, leading to suboptimal performance.
Another potential factor is the context information and
complexity of the changes. The issues in the SWE-bench
dataset are more detailed, with a median length of 295 tokens,
compared to 75 tokens in our dataset. Furthermore, the SWE-
bench dataset has fewer changed files with a median of two
files per issue, while our internal dataset has a median of
three files per issue. These differences make the task more
challenging to identify the correct files for changes, leading to
a decrease in file localization accuracy in our internal dataset.
Finding 1. For SWE-bench, AI Planner Agent can cor-
rectly identify files that need to be changed, achieving
an average recall of 86%, while AI Coding Agent can
correctly generate code that is similar to the human-written
code with an average similarity score of 45%. On the other
hand, for our internal dataset, AI Planner Agent achieves
an average recall of 30%, while AI Coding Agent achieves
an average similarity score of 30%.
RQ2: T o what extent do practitioners agree with the gener-
ation by HULA when considering human feedback?
The offline evaluation did not incorporate human feedback
into the generation process. Thus, this online evaluation will
further assess HULA when incorporating human feedback
from practitioners. Figure 4 shows the online evaluation re-
sults of HULA, starting from practitioners clicked HULA to
TABLE III
(RQ1) T HE OFFLINE EVALUATION RESULTS OF HULA.
Metrics SWE-bench Verified Internal
%Issues for Success Generation 97% 100%
Recall of File Localization 86% 30%
%Issues for Perfect File Localization 84% 15%
%Issues for Perfect Passing Test Cases 31% -
%Issues of High Code Similarity 45% 30%
Made at SankeyMATIC.com
Generate a Plan
Review a Plan
Generate a Code
Refine a Code
Raise a PR
Drop-off: 
568
Merged PRs: 
56 (59%)
663
527 
(plan generation 
rate: 79%)
433 
(plan approval 
rate 82%)
376 
(code generation 
rate 87%)
95 (raised PR rate 25%)
Non-merged PRs: 
39 (41%)
Fig. 4. (RQ2) The Online Evaluation Results of HULA.
generate a coding plan until the associated PRs were reviewed.
If a software engineer did not proceed to the next step in
the HULA workflow, we considered the software engineer
dropping out. The usage data was recorded during the two
months of deployment. Below, we present the key results of
our online evaluation of HULA.
Figure 4 shows that out of the 663 issues that practitioners
used HULA, the coding plans were successfully generated for
527 issues, achieving a plan generation rate of 79%. Of these
527 issues, the coding plans for 433 issues were approved
by practitioners to proceed to the coding stage, achieving a
plan approval rate of 82%. These results suggest that HULA
is generally effective at generating coding plans, with a high
percentage of plans successfully passing both the generation
and approval stages.
Figure 4 shows that out of 433 issues that had the coding
plans approved, HULA successfully generated code changes
for 376 issues, achieving a code generation rate of 87%. Of
these 376 issues, the HULA-generated code for 95 issues was
then raised as PRs for review by other practitioners, achieving
a raised PR rate of 25%. Eventually, 56 PRs out of the 95
PRs that contained the HULA-generated code were merged,
achieving a merged PR rate of 59%.
As a result, 8% of the issues interacted with HULA had
successfully merged HULA-assisted PRs into the code repos-
itories. These results demonstrate the success of the LLM-
based software development agents in practice.
Finding 2. We find that during the planning stage, prac-
titioners approved the generated coding plans for 433 out
of 527 plan-generated issues, achieving a plan approval
rate of 82%. During the coding stage, pull requests were
created for 95 out of 376 code-generated issues, achieving
a raised PR rate of 25%. Of these, 56 pull requests were
successfully merged, leading to a merged PR rate of 59%.
348
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nova Southeastern University. Downloaded on September 04,2026 at 19:59:52 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

[[page 8]]
RQ3: What are the practitioners’ perceptions of using
HULA in practice?
In September 2024, we invited 146 practitioners who had
used HULA and completed the workflow at least once to
participate in a survey. After opening the survey for three
weeks, we received responses from 109 participants, achieving
a response rate of 75%.
Figure 5 shows the demographic of the participants. Most
participants were software engineers (95%). Regarding their
professional IT experience, 28% had over 10 years of experi-
ence, 43% had 4-9 years, 24% had 1-3 years, and 5% had
less than one year. Additionally, 93% of participants were
familiar with AI coding assistant products, with 50% being
very familiar and 43% somewhat familiar. Finally, 64% had
used HULA to generate code more than once.
Figure 6 presents the survey responses to our Likert-scale
questions regarding the performance of HULA during the
planning and coding stages. Based on 109 survey responses,
we generally observe low user disagreements in the planning
stage. Particularly, a total of 71% and 62% of participants
agreed that the identified files were relevant to the issue
description (Q1) and aligned with how they would have
approached the task (Q2). Considering the generated plans,
41% and 36% of the participants agreed that the change
plans aligned with the issue description (Q3) and aligned
with how they would have approached the task (Q4). These
results provide further insight into HULA’s strong capability
to identify relevant files and plan to mimic user behaviour.
Figure 6 shows that 61% of the participants agreed that the
generated code could be easily understood and modified to
solve the issue (Q5). However, an adjustment is likely needed
after the first generation. Without human involvement, 33%
of the participants agreed that the generated code solved their
task (Q6). Yet, 54% and 67% of them disagreed that the code
contains no defects and fulfilled non-functional requirements
(Q7) and completely solved the task without human involve-
ment (Q8), respectively. These results suggest that HULA still
faces challenges in generating the perfect code, however, the
generated code is easy to modify to match participants’ needs.
Figure 7 shows the analysis results of the open-ended
question regarding the perceived benefits of HULA (Q9).
Participants highlighted several benefits, including reducing
development time and effort (24 responses), resolving simple
tasks (18 responses), and assisting with initiating plans and
writing code (16 responses). Moreover, since HULA requires
an issue description as input, a few participants (3 responses)
mentioned that it promotes good documentation practices by
encouraging them to provide detailed issue descriptions.
Figure 8 presents the analysis results of the open-ended
question regarding the challenges participants faced when us-
ing HULA (Q10). Consistent with the Likert-scale responses,
common challenges included incorrect code functionality (25
responses) and incomplete code changes (17 responses). Ad-
ditionally, 14 participants noted that high efforts are required
to provide sufficient context for detailed issue descriptions.
D1. What is your job title?
0 30 60 90 120
1
4
104
Software Engineer
 Software Engineering Manager
 Other
D2. How many years of full-time professional experience you have in IT?
0 30 60 90 120
30
22
25
26
6
< 1 year
 1-3 years
 4-6 years
 7-9 years
 >=10 years
D4. Approximately, how many times have you use HULA to generate code?
0 30 60 90 120
4
2
15
49
39
1 time
 2-3 times
 4-5 times
 6-7 times
 more than 7 times
D3. How familiar are you with AI coding assistant products (e.g., Copilot, ChatGPT)?
0 30 60 90 120
55
47
3
3
1
Very unfamiliar (1)
 Somewhat unfamiliar (2)
 Neither familiar or unfamiliar (3)
Somewhat familiar (4)
 Very familiar (5)
Fig. 5. (RQ3) The Demographic of Participants in the Practitioners’ Survey
(n=109).
Participants also reported difficulties with the workflow, par-
ticularly with revisiting or altering the generations of previous
stages (14 responses). Other challenges included a limited
awareness of external context (e.g., dependencies), incomplete
code validations, difficulties in addressing large or complex
tasks, and long generation times.
Figure 9 presents the analysis of the open-ended question
regarding the areas of improvement for HULA from the
participants’ perspective (Q11). Regarding the improvement in
the UX/UI workflow (17 responses), participants highlighted
that they prefer the flexibility to move between planning and
coding stages to provide follow-up feedback (i.e., the revisiting
workflow), particularly when handling partially incomplete
changes. Additionally, participants suggested automatically
enhancing the input context with documentation (e.g., type
definitions), best practices (e.g., design patterns), and other
historical data (e.g., previous solutions) (14 responses). Other
suggestions include providing input guidance for users, en-
hancing code validation with selectable options, and extending
capabilities to generate test cases for corresponding changes.
Finding 3. 41% of participants agreed that the gen-
erated plan by HULA aligned accurately with the
issue description. While HULA still requires human
involvement to ensure the generated code completely
addresses the task, 61% of the participants agreed
that the generated code was easy to read and modify,
which helped reduce their initial development time
and effort. Additionally, participants acknowledged
that HULA promotes good documentation practice,
though this requires more effort to provide detailed
issue descriptions.
349
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nova Southeastern University. Downloaded on September 04,2026 at 19:59:52 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

[[page 9]]
Q1. The identified files are relevant to the issue description. 
Q2. The identified files align with how I would have approached this issue. 
Q3. The changes to the identified files align accurately with the issue description. 
Q4. The changes to the identified files align accurately 
with how I would have approached this issue. 
Q5. The generated code can be easily understood and modified to solve the issue. 
Q6. The generated code accurately solves the issue. 
Q7 . The generated code contains no defects and fulfils non-functional requirements. 
Q8. The generated code change is complete and fully addresses the issue.
[Planning stage]
[Coding stage]
Fig. 6. The Survey Responses on the Satisfaction of the Generated Plans and Code by HULA (n=109).
Reduce development time and eﬀort
Resolve simple or straightforward task
Helpful with initiating a plan and code
Seemless integration with Jira
Helpful with identifying relevant files and code
Encourage documentation practice
0 8 15 23 30
3
5
7
16
18
24
Incorrect code functionality
Incomplete code changes
Required significant eﬀort in providing issue description
UX/UI Workflow issues
Limited input context
Failed code validator, e.g., linter, compiler
Limited capability on large or complex task
Long analysis and generation time
Incorrect relevant file identification
0 8 15 23 30
5
7
7
8
9
14
14
17
25
Improve UX/UI workflow
Improve code functionality or completeness
Context enhancement
Input guidance
Enhance code validation
Optimize process for time-efficiency
Expand issue scope
Extend capabilities (e.g., test case generation)
Context personalized options
0 5 9 14 18
4
5
5
6
7
9
14
16
17
Benefits
Challenges
Improvements
Fig. 7. The Perceived Benefits of Using HULA (Q9, n=83).
Reduce development time and eﬀort
Resolve simple or straightforward task
Helpful with initiating a plan and code
Seemless integration with Jira
Helpful with identifying relevant files and code
Encourage documentation practice
0 8 15 23 30
3
5
7
16
18
24
Incorrect code functionality
Incomplete code changes
Required higher eﬀort in providing issue description
UX/UI Workflow issues
Limited input context
Code validator (e.g., linter, compiler) flagged issues
Limited capability on large or complex task
Long analysis and generation time
Incorrect relevant file identification
0 8 15 23 30
5
7
7
8
9
14
14
17
25
Improve UX/UI workflow
Improve code functionality or completeness
Context enhancement
Input guidance
Enhance code validation
Optimize process for time-efficiency
Expand issue scope
Extend capabilities, e.g., test case generation
Context personalized options
0 5 9 14 18
4
5
5
6
7
9
14
16
17
Benefits
Challenges
Improvements
Fig. 8. The Challenges Encountered when Using HULA (Q10, n=88).
Reduce development time and eﬀort
Resolve simple or straightforward task
Helpful with initiating a plan and code
Helpful with identifying relevant files and code
Encourage documentation practice
0 8 15 23 30
3
5
16
18
24
Benefits
Challenges
Improvements
Q5. What are the main benefits you received from using Autodev?
Q6. What are the main challenges you experienced from using Autodev?
Q7. How can we improve Autodev for you?
Note: Out of 109, ~90 participants answer the open-questions
Incorrect code functionality
Incomplete code changes
Required significant eﬀort in providing issue description
UX/UI Workflow issues
Limited input context
Failed code validator, e.g., linter, compiler
Limited capability on complex task
Long analysis and generation time
Incorrect relevant file identification
0 8 15 23 30
5
7
7
8
9
14
14
17
25
Improve UX/UI workflow
Improve code functionality or completeness
Context enhancement
Input guidance
Enhance code validation
Optimize process for time-efficiency
Expand issue scope
Extend capabilities, e.g., test case generation
Context personalized options
0 5 9 14 18
4
5
5
6
7
9
14
16
17
Fig. 9. The Improvement Areas Suggested by Participants (Q11, n=72).
VII. L ESSONS LEARNED AND FUTURE DIRECTIONS
In this section, we discuss key lessons learned and offer
suggestions for future work.
Lesson Learned 1: The performance of an LLM-based
software development agent heavily relies on a detailed
input description, but what key information is needed?
In RQ1, we found that HULA achieves a lower accuracy on
the internal dataset when compared to the SWE-bench dataset.
One of the possible reasons is related to the nature of how a
task is written. For the SWE-bench dataset, issues typically
have a detailed description along with key information e.g.,
module names or code snippets. However, for Agile-driven
organizations like Atlassian, practitioners tend to collaborate
closely through informal knowledge transfer (e.g., meetings,
discussion threads, or chats). Therefore, Agile-driven JIRA
issues may contain brief information like a user story or a
one-liner description instead of detailed documentation (as
observed in our internal dataset).
On the other hand, RQ2 indicates that practitioners’ agree-
ment with the generation is high when they can engage in
the process by reviewing and enriching the issue descriptions
with additional information. Although in RQ3, a few partic-
ipants in the survey acknowledged that HULA’s workflow
could promote good documentation practice, it requires more
effort to provide detailed issue descriptions. To address this
challenge, participants requested guidance on the needed types
of input information. Yet, little is known what key informa-
tion is needed. Future research directions should investigate:
What types of information must be presented for LLM-based
software development agents? How to automatically augment
such information to LLM-based software development agents?
What is the best augmentation approach for LLM-based soft-
ware development agents?
Lesson Learned 2: Evaluating functional correctness
should go beyond passing unit test cases. Functional correct-
ness is the ultimate goal of any LLM-based software develop-
ment agent (i.e., to generate code that is functionally correct).
350
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nova Southeastern University. Downloaded on September 04,2026 at 19:59:52 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

[[page 10]]
During our offline evaluation, we followed the state-of-the-
art approaches [39]–[41] to evaluate the code functionality
based on the percentage of the passing unit test cases (same
as SWE-bench [32]). However, our RQ3 shows that HULA
may not always generate functionally correct code despite
incorporating human and tool feedback.
Passing unit test cases should not be the sole goal of
evaluating code functionality due to the following reasons.
First, passing unit test cases requires practitioners to prepare
both test cases and the test environment (e.g., build and
configuration files) to execute test cases against the code
changes for a specific programming language for every pull
request. However, this approach is highly cost-intensive and
intricate, particularly in our enterprise context, due to the
complexity of the task and software dependencies. Secondly,
the binary nature of the test results (i.e., pass or fail) lacks
the granularity required for the team to assess how closely
the generated code aligns with the ground truth. Third, test
cases only show the presence of the software defects, but
not their absence. Therefore, the generated code that passes
unit test cases does not guarantee that the code is functionally
correct. To address this challenge, future research directions
should explore: How to generate explanations or descriptions
from test execution that are more beneficial to practitioners
and LLM-based agents when test cases are available? What is
an alternative approach to evaluating code functionality when
test cases are not available? How to go beyond the traditional
evaluation of functionality correctness (e.g., readability, tech-
nical debt, maintainability, etc)?
VIII. T HREAT TO VALIDITY
In this section, we disclose the threats to the validity.
Threats to construct validity. Measuring code similarity is
complex and nuanced. Code similarity can be measured based
on various dimensions, e.g., semantic similarity, syntactic
similarity, and functional similarity. To ensure that LLM-as-a-
Judge for code similarity is highly similar to human judge-
ment, we developed prompts that capture various concepts
of code similarity. To validate if the code similarity score is
aligned with human judgement, we randomly selected 203 Jira
issues. We asked software engineers to provide a similarity
score, ranging from 1 (no similarity), 2 (weak similarity), 3
(high similarity), to 4 (highly similarity). Then, we computed
the correlation efficient between the human score and LLM-
as-a-Judge score. We observed a high correlation coefficient
of 0.7, demonstrating the high degree of alignment between
human judgement and LLM-as-a-judge.
Threats to external validity. Our HULA framework is
generally applicable to other coding platforms and other
LLMs. However, for this paper, the findings are limited to
the context of Atlassian Jira which is internally used by
Atlassian software engineers and may not be generalized to
other contexts. Therefore, the application of this framework
in other coding platforms will prove fruitful.
Threats to internal validity. We designed our HULA
framework to be architecture-agnostic, meaning that other
LLMs are applicable to this framework. However, the exper-
iment and findings of this paper rely on the use of GPT-4
as a backbone LLM for our HULA framework. Based on
the SWE-Bench Leaderboard, we find that our performance is
comparable to the 6th-ranked agent as of 26 September 2024,
highlighting the competitive performance of our backbone
LLM. It is possible that other LLMs that are larger with a
higher number of parameters may achieve higher performance.
Nevertheless, the key goal of this paper is not to investigate
which LLMs perform best, but instead to investigate the effec-
tiveness of the HULA framework in real-world deployment.
Therefore, the investigation of the best-performing LLMs is
left for future work.
Lastly, although we may not be able to disclose all aspects
of the implementation and experiment design due to industrial
confidentiality reasons, we are confident that the successful
development and integration of the HULA framework into
Atlassian Jira is a great achievement, paving the way forward
the future of AI-powered software development tools. In
addition, our experience, findings, lessons learned, and future
research directions will be beneficial for other practitioners
and software engineering researchers.
IX. C ONCLUSION
In this paper, we introduce a Hu man-in-the-Loop LLM-
based Software Development A gents Framework (HULA).
We design the user interface, implement the agents, and deploy
the framework into Atlassian JIRA for internal uses. Through
a multi-stage evaluation of HULA involving real-world de-
ployment and user surveys with Atlassian practitioners, we
conclude that (1) the detail of input can highly affect the
performance of HULA; (2) incorporating human feedback
into HULA can enhance the input context and be beneficial
in practice; (3) practitioners perceive that HULA can help
minimize the overall development time and effort but code
quality remains a concern in some cases. While the generated
plan is perceived as accurate, HULA still faces challenges in
generating perfect code without human input. Hence, future re-
search is encouraged to enhance the quality of LLM-generated
code [42], [43].
X. A CKNOWLEDGMENTS
This work was carried out through a collaboration be-
tween Atlassian, Monash University, and the University of
Melbourne. The authors sincerely thank the universities and
Atlassian’s ADO AI team, with special appreciation to the en-
gineering (Acrabat), data science, product, and design teams,
for their invaluable support and contributions.
XI. D ISCLAIMER
The perspectives and conclusions presented in this paper are
solely the authors’ and should not be interpreted as represent-
ing the official policies or endorsements of Atlassian or any
of its subsidiaries and affiliates. Additionally, the outcomes of
this paper are independent of, and should not be construed as
an assessment of, the quality of products offered by Atlassian.
351
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nova Southeastern University. Downloaded on September 04,2026 at 19:59:52 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

[[page 11]]
REFERENCES
[1] W. X. Zhao, K. Zhou, J. Li, T. Tang, X. Wang, Y . Hou, Y . Min, B. Zhang,
J. Zhang, Z. Dong et al., “A survey of large language models,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2303.18223, 2023.
[2] J. Liu, K. Wang, Y . Chen, X. Peng, Z. Chen, L. Zhang, and Y . Lou,
“Large language model-based agents for software engineering: A sur-
vey,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.02977, 2024.
[3] X. Hou, Y . Zhao, Y . Liu, Z. Yang, K. Wang, L. Li, X. Luo, D. Lo,
J. Grundy, and H. Wang, “Large language models for software engineer-
ing: A systematic literature review,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.10620,
2023.
[4] D. Zan, B. Chen, F. Zhang, D. Lu, B. Wu, B. Guan, Y . Wang, and J.-G.
Lou, “Large language models meet nl2code: A survey,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2212.09420, 2022.
[5] J. Yang, C. E. Jimenez, A. Wettig, K. Lieret, S. Yao, K. Narasimhan,
and O. Press, “SWE-Agent: Agent-computer interfaces enable automated
software engineering,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.15793, 2024.
[6] Y . Zhang, H. Ruan, Z. Fan, and A. Roychoudhury, “Autocoderover:
Autonomous program improvement,” in Proceedings of the 33rd ACM
SIGSOFT International Symposium on Software Testing and Analysis,
2024, pp. 1592–1604.
[7] D. Chen, S. Lin, M. Zeng, D. Zan, J.-G. Wang, A. Cheshkov, J. Sun,
H. Yu, G. Dong, A. Alievet al., “Coder: Issue resolving with multi-agent
and task graphs,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.01304, 2024.
[8] W. Tao, Y . Zhou, W. Zhang, and Y . Cheng, “Magis: Llm-based
multi-agent framework for github issue resolution,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2403.17927, 2024.
[9] C. S. Xia, Y . Deng, S. Dunn, and L. Zhang, “Agentless: De-
mystifying llm-based software engineering agents,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2407.01489, 2024.
[10] D. Arora, A. Sonwane, N. Wadhwa, A. Mehrotra, S. Utpala, R. Bairi,
A. Kanade, and N. Natarajan, “Masai: Modular architecture for software-
engineering ai agents,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.11638, 2024.
[11] Y . Ma, Q. Yang, R. Cao, B. Li, F. Huang, and Y . Li, “How to understand
whole software repository?” arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.01422, 2024.
[12] J. Zhou, H. Zhang, and D. Lo, “Where should the bugs be fixed?
more accurate information retrieval-based bug localization based on bug
reports,” in 2012 34th International Conference on Software Engineering
(ICSE), 2012, pp. 14–24.
[13] C. Tantithamthavorn, A. Ihara, and K.-i. Matsumoto, “Using co-change
histories to improve bug localization performance,” in 2013 14th ACIS
International Conference on Software Engineering, Artificial Intelli-
gence, Networking and Parallel/Distributed Computing. IEEE, 2013,
pp. 543–548.
[14] C. Tantithamthavorn, S. L. Abebe, A. E. Hassan, A. Ihara, and K. Mat-
sumoto, “The impact of IR-based classifier configuration on the perfor-
mance and the effort of method-level bug localization,” Information and
Software Technology, vol. 102, pp. 160–174, 2018.
[15] W. Takerngsaksiri, C. Tantithamthavorn, and Y .-F. Li, “Syntax-aware
on-the-fly code completion,” Information and Software Technology, vol.
165, p. 107336, 2024.
[16] W. Takerngsaksiri, C. Warusavitarne, C. Yaacoub, M. H. Keng Hou,
and C. Tantithamthavorn, “Students’ perspectives on ai code comple-
tion: Benefits and challenges,” in 2024 IEEE 48th Annual Computers,
Software, and Applications Conference (COMPSAC), 2024, pp. 1606–
1611.
[17] W. Takerngsaksiri, R. Charakorn, C. Tantithamthavorn, and Y .-F. Li,
“PyTester: Deep reinforcement learning for text-to-testcase generation,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.07576, 2024.
[18] S. Alagarsamy, C. Tantithamthavorn, and A. Aleti, “A3Test: Assertion-
augmented automated test case generation,” Information and Software
Technology, vol. 176, p. 107565, 2024.
[19] Z. Li, S. Lu, D. Guo, N. Duan, S. Jannu, G. Jenks, D. Majumder,
J. Green, A. Svyatkovskiy, S. Fu et al., “CodeReviewer: Pre-training
for automating code review activities,”arXiv preprint arXiv:2203.09095,
2022.
[20] C. Pornprasit and C. Tantithamthavorn, “Fine-tuning and prompt en-
gineering for large language models-based code review automation,”
Information and Software Technology, 2024.
[21] P. Thongtanunam, C. Pornprasit, and C. Tantithamthavorn, “Autotrans-
form: Automated code transformation to support modern code review
process,” in Proceedings of the 44th international conference on software
engineering, 2022, pp. 237–248.
[22] Y . Hong, C. Tantithamthavorn, P. Thongtanunam, and A. Aleti, “Com-
mentfinder: a simpler, faster, more accurate code review comments
recommendation,” in Proceedings of the 30th ACM joint European
software engineering conference and symposium on the foundations of
software engineering, 2022, pp. 507–519.
[23] M. Fu and C. Tantithamthavorn, “Linevul: A transformer-based line-
level vulnerability prediction,” in Proceedings of the 19th International
Conference on Mining Software Repositories, 2022, pp. 608–620.
[24] Z. Li, S. Dutta, and M. Naik, “Llm-assisted static analysis for detecting
security vulnerabilities,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.17238, 2024.
[25] M. Fu, C. Tantithamthavorn, T. Le, Y . Kume, V . Nguyen, D. Phung,
and J. Grundy, “AIBugHunter: A practical tool for predicting, classifying
and repairing software vulnerabilities.” Empirical Software Engineering,
2024.
[26] M. Fu, C. Tantithamthavorn, T. Le, V . Nguyen, and D. Phung, “Vulre-
pair: a t5-based automated software vulnerability repair,” in Proceedings
of the 30th ACM joint european software engineering conference and
symposium on the foundations of software engineering, 2022, pp. 935–
947.
[27] D. Lo, “Trustworthy and synergistic artificial intelligence for software
engineering: Vision and roadmaps,” in 2023 IEEE/ACM International
Conference on Software Engineering: Future of Software Engineering
(ICSE-FoSE), 2023, pp. 69–85.
[28] R. Hoda, H. Dam, C. Tantithamthavorn, P. Thongtanunam, and M.-A.
Storey, “Augmented agile: Human-centered ai-assisted software man-
agement,” IEEE Software, vol. 40, no. 4, pp. 106–109, 2023.
[29] J. Zhou, H. Zhang, and D. Lo, “Where should the bugs be fixed?
more accurate information retrieval-based bug localization based on bug
reports,” in 2012 34th International conference on software engineering
(ICSE). IEEE, 2012, pp. 14–24.
[30] J. Pasuksmit, P. Thongtanunam, and S. Karunasekera, “Towards just-
enough documentation for agile effort estimation: What information
should be documented?” in 2021 IEEE International Conference on
Software Maintenance and Evolution (ICSME). IEEE, 2021, pp. 114–
125.
[31] “Introducing swe-bench verified,” https://openai.com/index/
introducing-swe-bench-verified/, accessed: 2024-08-13.
[32] C. E. Jimenez, J. Yang, A. Wettig, S. Yao, K. Pei, O. Press, and
K. Narasimhan, “Swe-bench: Can language models resolve real-world
github issues?” arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.06770, 2023.
[33] S. Zhou, U. Alon, S. Agarwal, and G. Neubig, “Codebertscore: Evalu-
ating code generation with pretrained models of code,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2302.05527, 2023.
[34] T. Zhang, V . Kishore, F. Wu, K. Q. Weinberger, and Y . Artzi, “Bertscore:
Evaluating text generation with bert,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1904.09675,
2019.
[35] L. Zheng, W.-L. Chiang, Y . Sheng, S. Zhuang, Z. Wu, Y . Zhuang, Z. Lin,
Z. Li, D. Li, E. Xing et al., “Judging llm-as-a-judge with mt-bench
and chatbot arena,” Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
vol. 36, pp. 46 595–46 623, 2023.
[36] K. Charmaz, “Constructing grounded theory,” 2014.
[37] D. Spencer, Card sorting: Designing usable categories. Rosenfeld
Media, 2009.
[38] M. L. McHugh, “Interrater reliability: the kappa statistic,” Biochemia
medica, vol. 22, no. 3, pp. 276–282, 2012.
[39] D. Hendrycks, S. Basart, S. Kadavath, M. Mazeika, A. Arora, E. Guo,
C. Burns, S. Puranik, H. He, D. Songet al., “Measuring coding challenge
competence with apps,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2105.09938, 2021.
[40] J. Austin, A. Odena, M. Nye, M. Bosma, H. Michalewski, D. Dohan,
E. Jiang, C. Cai, M. Terry, Q. Le et al., “Program synthesis with large
language models,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2108.07732, 2021.
[41] M. Chen, J. Tworek, H. Jun, Q. Yuan, H. P. D. O. Pinto, J. Kaplan,
H. Edwards, Y . Burda, N. Joseph, G. Brockman et al., “Evaluating large
language models trained on code,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2107.03374,
2021.
[42] Y . Liu, T. Le-Cong, R. Widyasari, C. Tantithamthavorn, L. Li, X.-
B. D. Le, and D. Lo, “Refining chatgpt-generated code: Characterizing
and mitigating code quality issues,” ACM Transactions on Software
Engineering and Methodology, vol. 33, no. 5, pp. 1–26, 2024.
[43] X. She, Y . Liu, Y . Zhao, Y . He, L. Li, C. Tantithamthavorn, Z. Qin, and
H. Wang, “Pitfalls in language models for code intelligence: A taxonomy
and survey,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.17903, 2023.
352
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nova Southeastern University. Downloaded on September 04,2026 at 19:59:52 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.