[[page 1]]
Towards Effective GenAI Multi-Agent Collaboration:
Design and Evaluation for Enterprise Applications
Raphael Shu∗, Nilaksh Das ∗, Michelle Yuan ∗, Monica Sunkara, Yi Zhang
AWS Bedrock
Abstract
AI agents powered by large language models (LLMs) have shown strong capabili-
ties in problem solving. Through combining many intelligent agents, multi-agent
collaboration has emerged as a promising approach to tackle complex, multi-faceted
problems that exceed the capabilities of single AI agents. However, designing the
collaboration protocols and evaluating the effectiveness of these systems remains a
significant challenge, especially for enterprise applications. This report addresses
these challenges by presenting a comprehensive evaluation of coordination and
routing capabilities in a novel multi-agent collaboration framework. We evaluate
two key operational modes: (1) a coordination mode enabling complex task com-
pletion through parallel communication and payload referencing, and (2) a routing
mode for efficient message forwarding between agents. We benchmark on a set of
handcrafted scenarios from three enterprise domains, which are publicly released
with the report. For coordination capabilities, we demonstrate the effectiveness of
inter-agent communication and payload referencing mechanisms, achieving end-to-
end goal success rates of 90%. Our analysis yields several key findings: multi-agent
collaboration enhances goal success rates by up to 70% compared to single-agent
approaches in our benchmarks; payload referencing improves performance on
code-intensive tasks by 23%; latency can be substantially reduced with a routing
mechanism that selectively bypasses agent orchestration. These findings offer
valuable guidance for enterprise deployments of multi-agent systems and advance
the development of scalable, efficient multi-agent collaboration frameworks.
1 Introduction
The rapid advancement of AI agents driven by large language models (LLMs) [ 3] has opened
new frontiers towards solving complex problems. Based on the strong reasoning and tool-use
capabilities, an agent can plan and execute multiple steps for actions until the goal of problem solving
is reached [23]. However, as the complexity of real-world challenges continues to grow, there is an
increasing need for scaling up the agent-based systems by coordinating with multiple agents with
diverse specializations [17].
Towards tackling multi-faceted real-world problems, multi-agent system (MAS) research emerged in
the mid-1980s to early-1990s as a critical sub-field of artificial intelligence focused on developing
computational systems composed of multiple interacting intelligent agents [18]. Researchers sought
to create frameworks where autonomous entities could communicate, coordinate, and solve problems
collectively [20]. With the rise of LLM-based AI agents in recent years, the key challenges in MAS
research regained focal attention in the new Generative AI (GenAI) era [8]. While earlier MAS work
drew inspirations heavily from fields like distributed computing and game theory, new LLM-based
GenAI agent research looks further into inter-disciplinary influence from psychology and social
science as the AI agents start to demonstrate human-like intelligence as well as social behavior [16].
∗Authors contributed equally
arXiv:2412.05449v1 [cs.CL] 6 Dec 2024

[[page 2]]
Figure 1: Illustration of the hierarchical agents approach for multi-agent collaboration. In a centralized
hierarchy, a supervisor agent oversees and assigns tasks to specialist agents. The figure demonstrates
a multi-layer hierarchy, where an agent can function as both a specialist agent and a supervisor agent.
One particularly fruitful research avenue in GenAI MAS research is the exploration of multi-agent
collaboration (MAC) [9]. Operating under the “collaborative assumption” [13] – a premise that agents
are fundamentally motivated to achieve shared or compatible goals and prioritize collective problem
solving over individual self-interest – multi-agent collaboration aims to address the key challenges
such as communication protocols, goal alignment, group decision-making, scalability, and trust and
reliability [4, 21, 25]. In this paper, we present a particular design of MAC framework targeting
the development of MAC applications for real-world enterprise use cases. Three research questions
arise for having multiple LLM-based agents to work together: 1) how to define the collaboration
mechanism, 2) how to facilitate efficient knowledge exchange between agents, and 3) how to evaluate
the effectiveness and efficiency of collaboration. In this technical report, we propose strategies to
address these research questions. Based on collected evaluation datasets, we report the evaluation
results and detailed analysis on the effectiveness and efficiency of multi-agent collaboration.
Collaboration Mechanism Collaboration mechanisms define how agents interact with each other
to achieve a common goal [24]. Two key aspects are important: team hierarchy and decision-making
mechanisms. Both hierarchy and decision-making can be either centralized or decentralized [ 7].
In a centralized hierarchy, a central authority assigns or delegates tasks to agents, whereas in a
decentralized hierarchy, agents take their own initiatives. On the other hand, centralized decision-
making involves a single agent making the final decision, while decentralized decision-making often
relies on consensus or voting among multiple agents.
The literature presents various approaches to these mechanisms. For example, ChatDev [17] employs
a centralized team hierarchy and decision-making mechanism, while MAD [ 19] and Generative
Agents [16] adopt decentralized hierarchies and decision-making processes.
In MAC, we start by exploring centralized approaches which we refer to as hierarchical agents, and
expand to decentralized mechanisms as future work. In hierarchical agents, each team has a tree-like
hierarchy, with the root agent responsible for the the team goal and the "leaf" agents responsible
for sub-tasks. We refer to the root agent as supervisor Agent. The supervisor Agent is required to
perform task planning, break down the task, assign sub-tasks, and facilitate communication between
specialist agents.
As shown in Figure 1, such a hierarchy can extend to multiple levels, with leaf agents acting as
supervisors for other specialist agents. This hierarchical approach allows each leaf agent to focus on
their specialized tasks, while the Supervisor Agent manages planning, delegation, and coordination.
Unlike building a monolithic agent capable of solving a wide range of tasks, this approach enables
the LLM behind each agent to maintain a limited context relevant to their specific role. Additionally,
developing and benchmarking specialist agents becomes more manageable, and the development
2

[[page 3]]
process can be distributed across multiple agent developers. Note that although the supervisor agent
can delegate tasks to other agents, it is still the responsibility of the supervisor agent to complete the
task and bring the results back to the user.
Inter-Agent Knowledge Exchange Knowledge exchange between agents is a fundamental aspect
of multi-agent collaboration. In this technical report, we focus on enabling the most basic form of
knowledge exchange: message passing. Each agent can send direct messages to other visible agents.
Within the context of hierarchical agents, an agent can send and receive messages from its supervisor
and, potentially, from specialist agents. We initially support synchronized communication, where
message passing temporarily blocks the execution of the sender agent until a response is received.
This protocol can be extended to support asynchronous communication, allowing the sender agent to
continue execution while waiting for a response.
Multi-Agent Evaluation Benchmarking single AI agents is already difficult [10] and increasing
the number of agents to benchmark only complicates the problem. While an ideal approach is to
have a human try out the multi-agent system and evaluate whether every conversation is successful or
not, this kind of online evaluation is too expensive and not scalable for fast prototyping. To rapidly
evaluate our multi-agent systems, we introduce assertion-based benchmarking as a way to leverage
model-based evaluation and avoid dependency on collecting ground-truth conversation trajectories.
For assertion-based benchmarking, we collect 90 scenarios from three different enterprise application
domains. We open-source the benchmarking dataset and conversation evaluation script.2
For enterprise applications, efficient collaboration is crucial, as many are latency-sensitive. To address
this, we further optimize the multi-agent collaboration framework by introducing payload referencing
and a dynamic routing mechanism. The remainder of this report provides details on methodologies
and optimizations in Section 3. Evaluation results and analysis are presented in Sections 4 to 6.
Finally, we discuss limitations and future work in Sections 7 to 8.
2 Related Work
Multi-agent GenAI Systems An agent is defined as “an entity which is placed in an environ-
ment and senses different parameters that are used to make a decision based on the goal of the
entity.” [10]. The motivation for multi-agent systems is to have agents collaborate on a complex
task that could not have been accomplished by a single agent. With the rise of LLMs, researchers
have proposed leveraging the reasoning and planning capabilities of these models to develop more
sophisticated multi-agent systems. Examples of such multi-agent LLM systems include MetaGPT [9]
and CAMEL [ 12]. MetaGPT is one of the first multi-agent LLM projects that tries to mimic a
software company. Developers can provide a standard operating procedure and MetaGPT tries to
assign roles to various agents. CAMEL, or Communicative Agent Framework, promotes independent
collaboration between LLM agents. Its key innovation is the use of "inception prompting," a method
that steers conversational agents to complete tasks. Beyond its practical applications, CAMEL also
functions as a research platform. It enables the creation and analysis of conversational data, offering
valuable insights into the behavior and interactions of communicative agents. Across these works,
much of the emphasis is on customization and coordination, which was much less prominent in
traditional multi-agent systems [18, 20].
Multi-agent Frameworks and Platforms CrewAI [5] is designed to enhance task execution
by organizing agents into specialized roles, similar to team members in a crew. This approach
emphasizes task decomposition, where a complex problem is broken down into smaller, manageable
subtasks. Each agent is assigned a specific role based on its expertise, allowing for efficient problem-
solving. AutoGen [ 22] represents a significant advancement in enabling multi-agent systems to
engage in sophisticated conversations. This framework allows agents to communicate and collaborate
by sharing information and refining their outputs through iterative interactions. By simulating
human-like dialogues, AutoGen enables agents to negotiate, plan, and execute tasks collaboratively.
LangGraph [11] introduces an innovative framework for organizing agent interactions using directed
acyclic graphs (DAGs). This structure allows for clear visualization and management of dependencies
2https://github.com/aws-samples/multiagent-collab-scenario-benchmark
3

[[page 4]]
between tasks and agents. By leveraging DAGs, LangGraph optimizes the flow of information and
decision-making processes among agents. This approach enhances the system’s ability to handle
complex, interdependent tasks by ensuring that each agent’s actions are informed by the outcomes of
preceding steps.
End-to-end Agent Evaluation Frameworks While our work on assertion-based benchmarking is
ongoing, there are other works in the literature that are similar. AgentEval [2] has a multi-agent setup
where there are three agents to evaluate conversation trajectories: 1) CriticAgent, 2) QuantifierAgent,
3) VerifierAgent. The CriticAgent takes the task description as input and outputs a list of criteria for
task success. The QuantifierAgent then assesses whether the trajectories meet the criteria and the
outputs here can be a scalar value. The VerifierAgent will finally verify that the evaluation is accurate
and complete. Note that the criteria proposed by the CriticAgent is much more coarse-grained like
“clarity” and “efficiency”.
AgentQuest [6] proposes to measure success with a “progress rate” that is based on a set of milestones.
The progress rate measures how many milestones are completed and milestones are defined to be
“environment hidden states the agent needs to reach to get the final solution of the task”. AgentQuest
focuses benchmarking agents for game-like datasets like ALFWorld and Sudoku, so state naturally
comes with the environment when the agent plays the game. These milestones can either be externally
annotated or programmatically defined within the simulation.
Most recently, ToolSandbox [14] is the work in literature most similar to our evaluation setup. Tool-
Sandbox also includes a user simulator and environment executor for tools. Before the simulations,
they also pre-define “milestones” and “minefields” for each session. Milestones are events that must
occur during the conversation and minefields are those that should not happen. These milestones
and minefields are similar to our assertions that cover actions and agent behaviors. In addition, their
implementation stores an “Execution Context” that contains the “world state” to mimic tasks that
manipulate a resource like a database.
3 Modeling
Multi-agent collaboration enables developers to combine specialized agents to solve complex prob-
lems. Each agent can be independently developed, optimized, and configured to leverage its unique
strengths. Compared to single-agent workflows, multi-agent collaboration integrates the complemen-
tary capabilities and expertise of agents with different specializations, making it highly effective for
addressing complex tasks. Developers can achieve amplified capability, flexibility, and scalability
by deploying a team of agents. Moreover, multi-agent solutions can have higher robustness and
fault tolerance by using redundant agents in the team. For complex tasks, multi-agent solutions can
improve efficiency by distributing the tasks to multiple agents and parallelizing the execution.
From a developer experience perspective, the development process is simplified by dividing func-
tionalities among multiple agents. Developers can potentially reuse and compose existing agents
for different multi-agent solutions. In some cases, cost-effective solutions can be built by utilizing
low-cost orchestrating LLMs for specific agents. In this section, we review the primary features of
MAC, which include inter-agent communication, payload referencing, and dynamic agent routing.
3.1 Inter-Agent Communication
We model the inter-agent communication capability as a specialized tool that can be leveraged by the
supervisor agent. This approach allows us to seamlessly extend the agents’ communication abilities
by integrating it with the existing function calling capability. The key aspects of this approach are:
1. Unified Communication Interface: The user is treated as another agent in the system,
allowing for a consistent communication interface across all interactions — whether it’s
between the user and supervisor agent, or between the supervisor agent and specialist agents.
2. Parallel Communication: The supervisor agent can engage in parallel communication with
multiple specialist agents simultaneously, enabling more efficient task completion through
concurrent information exchange (Figure 2).
3. Leveraging Existing Function Calling Capability: By modeling communication as a tool,
the supervisor agent can utilize the same underlying mechanisms for function calling to
4

[[page 5]]
Figure 2: Example of parallel agent communication. In this example, the supervisor agent simultane-
ously communicates with multiple agents as the tasks can be completed independently.
facilitate inter-agent messaging. This ensures a cohesive integration with the foundational
model’s existing tool-use capabilities.
We provide the supervisor agent with a tool called send_message, which has two parameters:
recipient and content. This tool allows the supervisor agent to send messages to other agents.
Additionally, the incoming messages from specialist agents are tagged in the following format:
<message from="$SOURCE_AGENT">
...
</message>
Overall, this approach to inter-agent communication helps to create a more unified and extensible
multi-agent collaboration framework.
3.2 Payload Referencing
Payload referencing is a specialized mechanism designed to handle the exchange of large content
blocks, particularly code snippets (Figure 3). This mechanism aims to reduce the latency of the super-
visor agent by allowing direct injection of text extracted from past multi-party communication into the
message content. This is an important optimization for inter-agent communication, as the supervisor
agent often needs to provide relevant context from previous interactions when communicating with
specialist agents.
For example, let’s say the supervisor agent (Agent A) needs to ask a specialist agent (Agent B) to
perform a specific task based on the output of another specialist agent (Agent C). Instead of having
Agent A regenerate the full context and details of the message from Agent C, the payload referencing
mechanism allows Agent A to simply reference the relevant text from its past interactions. This can
significantly reduce the number of output tokens required in the message to Agent B, leading to faster
communication and reduced latency.
When a specialist agent generates a message containing structured content (e.g., code blocks), the
system automatically detects these sections. For each incoming message to the supervisor agent,
the detected content blocks, referred to as payloads, are assigned unique identifiers and wrapped
with special tags that include these identifiers before being sent to the supervisor agent. Instead of
repeatedly regenerating large static payloads in its outgoing messages to other specialist agents, the
supervisor agent is instructed to reference previously detected payloads using the assigned identifiers.
This allows the supervisor agent to use a simplified reference tag when sending messages. For every
outgoing message from the supervisor agent, the system detects these reference tags and replaces
5

[[page 6]]
Figure 3: Example of payload referencing mechanism. In this example, the Coder agent delivers code
which is then detected and tagged. The supervisor agent can then use the tag as a reference which
would then be expanded to the original content for the Test agent.
Figure 4: Dynamic agent routing, where an incoming request can be routed directly to a specialist
agent, with their messages relayed back to the user.
them with the corresponding payloads before sending them to the other specialist agents. This
technique enables the supervisor agent to reference payloads by generating a significantly reduced
number of tokens compared to generating the entire payload itself.
Our ablation experiments with the payload referencing capability demonstrated a 27% relative
reduction in the average communication overhead per turn of the supervisor agent. This is discussed
in more detail in Section 6.1.
3.3 Dynamic Agent Routing
Given a complex problem, a supervisor agent often needs to communicate with multiple specialist
agents across several rounds to complete the task. However, when the incoming request is simple and
relevant to only a single specialized agent, triggering the full coordination capability of the supervisor
agent introduces unnecessary overhead, slowing down the collaboration. In such cases, the supervisor
6

[[page 7]]
agent only needs to route the incoming message to the appropriate specialist agent, avoiding the
inefficiency of the full orchestration process.
To address this communication overhead, we introduce a dynamic agent routing mechanism that
selectively bypasses the supervisor agent’s orchestration when the incoming message only requires
simple routing, such as the example shown in Figure 4. The routing decision is made using a fast
classifier that predicts whether the incoming message can be directly routed without additional
processing. If the classifier is uncertain, it can still trigger the full orchestration process as a fallback.
Note that the supervisor agent is always aware of the routing actions, and the communication between
the requester and specialist agents will be available in the agent memory even the orchestration
process is bypassed.
Applying dynamic agent routing can substantially improve the efficiency of multi-agent collaboration,
particularly for latency-sensitive use cases. However, the success of dynamic agent routing relies on
an accurate classifier capable of determining when a request requires the supervisor agent’s processing
with low latency. In our experiments, we demonstrate that this classification step can achieve ≥ 90%
accuracy with a latency of approximately 350 ms.
4 End-to-end Automatic Evaluation
Recent literature have noted the challenges associated with LLM agents benchmarking, which are
often due to the dynamic and complex nature of the problem. The definition of success is often
unclear as it can refer to either from the user perspective or from the environment/system, as users
may not fully know what happens “behind-the-scenes”. Moreover, benchmarks may not consider
that user feedback can help agents achieve their goals. If the user is not properly simulated, then the
evaluation undermines the agent’s capability to orchestrate tasks with a human in the loop.
Prior single-agent benchmarking is more static where user inputs and follow-up responses are pre-
defined before evaluation. The gold-truth actions would be collected along with the conversations,
which would then be compared to the actions generated by the agent. This static setup already has
some issues because it assumes that the user goals can only be fulfilled through executing a certain set
of actions. In reality, there may be multiple trajectories that enable the agent to fulfill user requests.
If those trajectories are not captured in the gold-truth, then the agent is incorrectly penalized.
To generalize evaluation metrics for agents, we formally define the success of agent for a given
user u and scenario s as X s
u , a Bernoulli random variable that represents success or failure for the
user-agent session. A scenario is defined as the setting for a session which includes user goals and
task domain. Since user profiles and scenarios vary, we are interested in the expected value of success
for any user-agent session:
EU,S[X s
u] = psuccess (1)
where psuccess is the success rate of an agent with a sampled user from user pool U and scenario
sampled from collection S. The objective of benchmarking is to approximate psuccess.
We can easily extend this formulation to multi-agent systems. However, with more agents added, the
complexity grows and psuccess is more difficult to approximate. Several, different trajectories could be
considered correct and sometimes no actions need to be executed to achieve user goals. We propose
assertion-based benchmarking as a way to better approximate likelihood of agent success.
The assertion-based evaluation framework relies on three components: 1) benchmarking data col-
lection, 2) environment simulators, 3) automatic assertion judge (Figure 5). First, a set of scenarios
need to be collected according to pre-defined agent profiles and tool schemas for a particular domain.
With each scenario, a list of assertions needs to be included. These assertions are statements that
must hold true for a conversation to be considered successful. This is similar to debugging software
with test cases. Second, the user simulator is initialized from the scenario and input problem and
begins to interact with the multi-agent system. An action simulator is also used to simulate the tool
calls from the multi-agent system. The trajectories are recorded for further evaluation. Finally, a
judge determines the validity of each assertion. Based on the number of correct assertions, goal
success rates can be computed to help measure the success of the multi-agent system. In the following
subsections, we cover each component of the framework in depth.
7

[[page 8]]
Figure 5: Overview of end-to-end assertion-based benchmarking with scenarios and assertions
4.1 Benchmarking Data
There are three artifacts that need to be collected for each scenario. First, the scenario description
itself must list the user goals and any background information. The information in the scenario
description is critical because the user simulator will be grounded on the description. Then, the
second artifact is the input problem, which is the first turn of the conversation from the user. The
input problem will begin the benchmarking simulation.
The final artifact is a list of assertions that need to be satisfied during the simulation. Assertions
are categorized two types: user-side and system-side. User-side assertions cover behaviors of the
multi-agent system that can be observed by the user. On the other hand, system-side assertions cover
behaviors of the multi-agent system that cannot be observed by the user. These assertions may include
tool calling correctness, parameter correctness, inter-agent behavior, or rule compliance. Appendix A
shows example artifacts from our publicly released benchmarking data collection.
4.2 Simulation
For each session, we feed the scenario description and the input problem to a user simulator. The user
simulator is a LLM that is prompted to follow the scenario description. The simulation begins with
the input problem as the first turn of the session. The input problem is delivered to the supervisor
agent who then begins to work the specialist agents. If the specialist agents need to invoke an action,
the function calls are passed to the action simulator, which is a LLM grounded on the provided
tool schemas. The action simulator also has access to past tool invocations so that it can generate
results that is aligned to past observations. After the action simulator returns the simulated action, the
specialist agents continue to carry out the task.
During the simulation, the user simulator will continue to interact with the supervisor agents. The user
simulator can either help clarify any questions from the supervisor agent or keep sending new task
requests. Any requests or answers given by the user simulator should be aligned with the information
in the scenario. Once the user simulator determines that all the goals in the scenario are met, the user
simulator generates a </stop> token to end the simulation. Otherwise, we set a maximum number
of user simulation turns to 5 to prevent simulations that fail to end.
4.3 Assertion Judgements
After simulations are completed, we pass the trajectories to a LLM judge to help automate the
assertion evaluation. Along with the simulation trajectories, we also pass the scenario and the
assertions to the judge. The judge returns whether each assertion is True or False, and includes the
reason for their judgement. The reason often exhibits evidence from the conversation, which can
8

[[page 9]]
Table 1: Definitions of Success Metrics
Metric Definition Implementation
Overall GSR Overall goal success rate covering both
the user-side and the system-side
Use LLM to judge user-side and system-
side assertions. For a conversation, score
is 1 if all assertions are True; else 0.
Supervisor
GSR
Goal success rate of the supervisor agent
without any dependence on sub-agent
and tool behavior
If overall GSR is 1 or supervisor agent
is reliable (see reliability metrics), then
score for the conversation is 1; else 0.
User-side GSR Goal success rate in the perspective of
the user
Use LLM to judge user-side assertions.
For a conversation, score is 1 if all user-
side assertions are True; else 0.
System-side
GSR
Goal success rate in the perspective of
the system developers
Use LLM to judge system-side asser-
tions. For a conversation, score is 1 if all
system-side assertions are True; else 0.
Table 2: Definitions of Latency Metrics
Metric Definition
Avg. communication
overhead per turn
Average number of seconds that the supervisor agent spends communi-
cating with other agents before getting back to the user. This time does
not take into account the duration of agents other than the supervisor
agent.
Avg. latency per com-
munication
Average number of seconds that the supervisor agent spends to deliver
each message to communicate with other agents.
Avg. user-perceived
turn latency per session
Average number of seconds it takes for the supervisor agent to get back
to the user. This time does take into account the duration of all agents in
the system.
Avg. communications
per session
Average count of messages sent by the supervisor agent over the entire
session.
Avg. output tokens per
communication
Average number of total output tokens from the supervisor agent for
each message.
easily show why the assertion has succeeded or failed. This is important as multi-agent conversations
can be very lengthy and difficult for people to pinpoint the causes of failures.
4.4 Metrics
A conversation is considered overall successful if all assertions, both user-side and system-side, are
True. We then measure Goal Success Rate (GSR) as the percentage of conversations that have all
assertions evaluated as True. This overall GSR is our primary measure of success. We also compute
User GSR and System GSR, which are the variants of GSR where the assertions being evaluated are
limited to one type (either user-side or system-side). These metrics are useful to understand whether
multi-agent systems are failing from the perspective of the user or the system (Table 1).
Beyond goal success, latency is a critical metric in multi-agent systems. As these systems involve
multiple agents interacting and collaborating to perform complex tasks, the time delay between agent
communications and actions can significantly impact user experience. Minimizing latency is crucial
for ensuring the system can operate efficiently, especially in time-sensitive applications. Table 2 lists
the various latency metrics that are included in this report.
Lastly, we also included metrics to evaluate routing mode. For routing mode, we are concerned with
routing classification accuracy, false agent switch rates, turn-level routing overhead, and routing
classification latency (Table 3).
9

[[page 10]]
Table 3: Definitions of Routing Metrics
Metric Definition
Classification Accuracy Accuracy of routing decisions, calculated based on human anno-
tated ground-truth labels.
False Agent Switch Rate Ratio of routing decisions causing the handling agent to be
switched to a wrong agent
Turn-level Routing Overhead
(ms)
Time taken in the primary agent (including routing classification
and orchestration) within a user turn.
Classification Latency (ms) Time taken for classifying a single routing decision.
Table 4: Dataset statistics, including average number of goals per scenario, average number of
assertions per scenario, total number of action groups, and total number of APIs/tools.
Dataset Avg. Goals per Scenario Avg. Assertions per Scenario Action Groups APIs/Tools
Travel 2.13 4.55 11 52
Mortgage 1.91 3.99 10 35
Software 1.69 7.47 2 4
5 Experimental Results
To understand how MAC performs for enterprise usage, we choose three business domains to
experiment with. For each domain, we set up a set of agents and tools. Then, we manually collect
benchmarking data for each domain. In this report, we show experiments on thirty scenarios from
each domain. This dataset is also publicly released for others to benchmark their own multi-agent
systems (Section 1). The three domains are as follows:
1. Travel planning: agents help user plan a trip, which includes booking flights, booking hotels,
finding local events, getting information about the weather, etc.
2. Mortgage financing: agents help user with mortgage issues, e.g., submitting loan applica-
tions, querying information about properties, retrieving banking information, etc.
3. Software development: agents help user design, implement, test, review, and/or deploy code.
The first two domains are conversational, whereas the third domain is more about automation and
requires minimal interaction with user. For the agent profile design, we have made sure to cover the
following conditions to showcase adoption of multi-agent collaboration for various developer setups:
1. Supervisor agents with and without tools: The supervisor agent for Mortgage has access to
MortgageLoans tools, whereas the supervisor agents for other domains do not have tools.
2. Specialist agents with and without tools: Many specialist agents have their own set of tools.
However, some specialist agents in Software do not have tools as they should have the
capability to complete the tasks without them.
3. Agent hierarchy with depth more than one: In Software, the supervisor agent can call on
Deploy agent, which can then call on Infrastructure agent and Application agent.
Table 4 shows an overview of the statistics for the three datasets. Action groups refer to group of
tools (e.g. “BookFlight” action group is a set of tools for searching flights, booking flights, getting
flight details, etc.). Travel and Mortgage each have more than thirty tools, whereas Software has only
two tools. Software tends to have more assertions on average than Travel and Mortgage. Appendix B
shows the agents for each domain and their associated action groups, which are the set of tools that
the agents have access to.
5.1 Coordination Mode Experiments
We report the goal success metrics for coordination mode across a variety of settings in Table 5.
For evaluating the assertions, we leverage OpenAI’s GPT-4o model [15] for providing LLM-based
10

[[page 11]]
Table 5: End-to-end evaluation of Coordination Mode
Setting Dataset Overall GSR Supervisor GSR
Supervisor: Sonnet 3.5 (20241022)
Specialists: Sonnet 3.5 (20241022)
Travel 0.90 0.90
Mortgage 0.90 0.93
Software 0.90 1.00
Supervisor: Sonnet 3.5 (20241022)
Specialists: Sonnet 3.0
Travel 0.87 0.90
Mortgage 0.90 0.97
Software 0.77 0.90
Supervisor: Sonnet 3.5 (20241022)
Specialists: Haiku 3.5
Travel 0.80 0.87
Mortgage 0.83 0.90
Software 0.87 0.93
Single-agent: Sonnet 3.5 (20241022)
Travel 0.60 –
Mortgage 0.80 –
Software 0.53 –
Table 6: Latency Performance of Coordination Mode
Setting Dataset
Avg. communication
overhead per turn (s)
Avg. user-perceived
turn latency
per session (s)
Supervisor: Sonnet 3.5 (20241022)
Specialists: Sonnet 3.5 (20241022)
Travel 13.75 31.46
Mortgage 13.39 24.42
Software 35.44 168.73
Supervisor: Sonnet 3.5 (20241022)
Specialists: Sonnet 3.0
Travel 15.43 42.12
Mortgage 15.97 29.90
Software 53.48 137.31
Supervisor: Sonnet 3.5 (20241022)
Specialists: Haiku 3.5
Travel 12.95 23.98
Mortgage 11.03 18.13
Software 36.65 125.31
Single-agent: Sonnet 3.5 (20241022)
Travel – 14.12
Mortgage – 9.12
Software – 52.61
judgements. The results demonstrate that multi-agent collaboration achieves the best overall GSR
of 90% across the three evaluated domains when the Claude 3.5 Sonnet (20241022) model [ 1] is
utilized as both the supervisor agent and the specialist agents.
We further examine the impact of using different agent models. Switching the specialist agent model
from Claude 3.5 Sonnet to Claude 3.0 Sonnet shows a significant regression in the performance for
the Software development domain. This is also apparent when the specialist agent is switched to
Claude 3.5 Haiku, as the performance in the Software domain is mostly recovered with this newer
generation of models.
We also compare the performance of a single agent with the multi-agent collaboration approach. In
this experiment, a single agent is given the tools from all specialist agents combined and is responsible
for assisting the user. We reuse the assertions collected for the multi-agent setup but replace any
mentions of specialist agents with supervisor agent (e.g. “flight agent books tickets” becomes “travel
agent books tickets”). For any assertions about inter-agent behaviors, we would replace mentions
of the primary agent with “user” and mentions of the specialist agent with the supervisor agent
(e.g. “code agent implements code and delivers back to software agent” becomes “software agent
implements code and delivers back to user”).
In the single-agent setting, we observe an absolute regression of up to 37%. MAC allows each
specialist agent to be provided with instructions for the specific subset of tasks it is supposed to
handle. This specialized task assignment may not be achievable by a single agent, which may struggle
to manage the multitude of instructions required to complete the complex tasks. In the single-agent
trajectories, we observe more hallucination in tool parameters and incorrect tool choice.
11

[[page 12]]
Table 7: Routing Mode Performance
Dataset
Classification
accuracy
False
switch
rate
Turn-level
routing
overhead (ms)
Classification
latency (ms)
Mortgage Routing (First Layer) 0.92 0.00 630 344
Mortgage Routing (Second Layer) 0.92 0.00 630 378
Travel Routing 0.90 0.03 750 360
Table 8: End-to-end evaluation of Routing Mode
Domain Overall GSR Supervisor GSR
Avg. Routing Overhead
per Turn (ms)
Travel 0.85 1.00 751
Mortgage 0.95 1.00 627
We report the latency metrics for our experiments in Table 6. When using Claude 3.5 Sonnet
(20241022) for both supervisor agent and specialist agents, the average communication overhead per
turn ranges from 13.39s to 35.44s, with the Software domain showing significantly higher overhead
due to its complexity. The Software domain consistently demonstrates higher latency metrics across
all settings, with user-perceived turn latency reaching 168.73s compared to 31.46s for Travel and
24.42s for Mortgage domains. While the single-agent setting shows lower user-perceived latencies,
this comes at the cost of reduced goal success rates as shown in the previous results. See Appendix C
for full results on coordination mode.
We also performed ablation experiments with the payload referencing capability of the supervisor
agent, which is discussed in more detail in Section 6.1.
5.2 Routing Mode Experiments
To benchmark dynamic agent routing, we curated two additional datasets for evaluation from our
original benchmarking data: 1) Mortgage Routing (3 agent layers) and 2) Travel Routing (2 agent
layers), and manually annotated around 100 routing classification labels for each datasets. Intrinsic
evaluation shows that the LLM-based routing solution with Claude 3.0 Haiku achieves more than
90% routing classification accuracy and less than 3% false agent switching rate (Table 7). Average
latency of routing classification is about 350 ms. With end-to-end evaluation, we observe turn-level
routing overhead (time taken by the supervisor agents) in 600 ms to 800ms range (Table 8).
5.3 Agreement with Human Evaluation
Throughout this report, we have used an LLM to provide automatic judgements on assertions. This
has helped scale our experiments so that we can quickly prototype and develop improved multi-agent
systems. What if we ask a human to judge conversation success purely from their own perspective
without any reference to assertions? To understand how well assertion-based evaluation compares
with human evaluation, we deliver a batch of ninety trajectories to human annotators during one of our
milestone checkpoints. For each conversation, we ask three annotators to provide binary judgements
on a different set of guidelines. During this human evaluation, they are never shown assertions or
LLM judgements and only instructed to determine success and efficiency from their own judgements.
Table 9 show the instructions given to human annotators for each success metric.
After the human annotators finish their evaluation, the aggregated majority judgement is used to
compare against LLM evaluations. Note that for this milestone, we use Claude 3.5 Sonnet (20240620)
for supervisor agent and Sonnet 3.0 for specialist agents. See Appendix D for the automatic and
human evaluation results for this set of experiments. We then compute agreement between human and
LLM judges. Since the judgements for automatic and human evaluation are binary, we use agreement
ratio to measure alignment between human and automatic evaluation. The agreement ratio is the
number of conversations with matching judgements (either both 1 or both 0) over the total number of
conversations evaluated.
12

[[page 13]]
Table 9: The instructions given to annotators when performing human evaluation of conversation
trajectories. Note that humans do not judge assertions and only determine success purely from their
own judgements.
Metric Human annotator instructions
User GSR Evaluate from user’s perspective, whether the conversation with the primary
agent meets the user’s goals and successfully address user’s requests or not.
System GSR From the perspective of the environment, evaluate whether the actual impacts
of all agent actions accurately address and resolve all of the user’s stated tasks,
requests, and expectations within that specific environment or context.
Supervisor
GSR
Evaluate from user’s perspective whether the primary agent has tried its best to
help the User, regardless of whether task was completed or the agent actions
correctly impacted the environment.
Table 10: The agreement ratios between human annotators and assertion-based benchmarking on
success metrics across 90 conversation trajectories.
Dataset Overall GSR Supervisor GSR User-side GSR System-side GSR
Travel 0.93 0.87 0.93 0.93
Mortgage 0.87 1.00 0.97 0.87
Software 0.97 0.77 1.00 0.90
For success metrics, the agreement is generally above 85% (Table 10). The only exception is on
primary agent success for software, where the agreement is 77%. Here, the automatic evaluation
has overall GSR as 90% but the human annotators only believe the supervisor agent is successful in
87% of the conversations. On the trajectories where the humans disagree with LLM judgements, we
observe a mix of mistakes from both ends. For some trajectories, the human evaluation would mark
that supervisor agent has not make a mistake but LLM judge has captured when the supervisor agent
repeatedly wanting to follow-up with the user rather than delegating tasks to sub-agents. There is
also the reversed case where the LLM judge does not observe any issues with the supervisor agent
but the human annotators detect that the supervisor agent neglects to conduct thorough code review
with the Review agent.
6 Communication Mechanism Ablations
Section 5 shows the main results of our approach with different models. In this section, we provide
additional ablations to quantify the impact of MAC communication mechanisms. This includes
experiments with and without payload referencing, as well as comparison with open-source frame-
works. The additional experiments provide more justification on the utility of MAC for enterprise
applications.
6.1 Impact of Payload Referencing
In Table 11, we report the results of an ablation experiment with Payload Referencing for Software
domain with Claude 3.5 Sonnet (20241022) as the supervisor agent as well as specialist agents. This
experiment reveals that payload referencing significantly improves both the efficiency as well as
effectiveness of multi-agent collaboration, particularly in the code-heavy Software domain. The
impact is most pronounced here as large code blocks are frequently exchanged between agents.
Enabling payload referencing results in a 23% relative improvement in overall GSR as well as a 27%
relative reduction in the average communication overhead per turn. The latter can be attributed to a
30% relative reduction in the average output tokens per communication of the supervisor agent, as
it is able to leverage the payload referencing mechanism to more efficiently reduce the number of
generated tokens required for sharing code blocks, while improving the goal success rate.
When enabling payload referencing, we also observe an increase in the average user-perceived turn
latency. As this also includes the latency of the specialist agents, it suggests that the specialist agents
operating for a smaller number of turns may be detrimental to the overall goal success.
13

[[page 14]]
Table 11: Impact of payload referencing on GSR and latency for Software
Overall
GSR
Avg.
communication
overhead per
turn (s)
Avg.
user-perceived
turn latency
per session (s)
Avg.
output
tokens per
communication
With Payload Ref. 0.90 35.44 168.73 373.77
Without Payload Ref. 0.73 48.78 159.75 539.21
Table 12: Comparison with a widely adopted open-source framework for task automation (OSF).
Note that the version of Sonnet 3.5 used below refers to an older version.
Setting Dataset Overall GSR Supervisor GSR
[MAC Coordination Mode]
Supervisor: Sonnet 3.5 (20240620)
Specialists: Sonnet 3.0
Travel 0.87 0.90
Mortgage 0.90 0.97
Software 0.77 0.90
[OSF]
Supervisor: Sonnet 3.5 (20240620)
Specialists: Sonnet 3.0
Travel 0.50 0.80
Mortgage 0.63 0.87
Software 0.40 0.63
[OSF]
Supervisor: GPT-4o (mini)
Specialists: GPT-4o (mini)
Travel 0.43 0.63
Mortgage 0.40 0.67
Software 0.33 0.77
In conclusion, payload referencing proves particularly valuable in domains such as Software, as it:
• Enables precise referencing of payloads without expensive regeneration of tokens
• Reduces the likelihood of payload corruption during agent-to-agent transmission
• Maintains formatting and structure of the payload across agent communications
• Facilitates more efficient parallel inter-agent communication
Our experiments suggest that payload referencing is a crucial optimization for multi-agent systems,
particularly in domains involving structured content exchange. The mechanism not only improves
system performance metrics but also enhances the quality and reliability of agent interactions.
6.2 Comparison with Task Automation Framework
We also conducted a comparative evaluation of our implementation against a widely adopted open-
source framework (OSF) for task automation. The OSF implements multi-agent collaboration as
a sequential task-automation workflow, wherein the supervisor agent receives a task from the user
and is responsible for breaking it up into one-time sub-tasks for its sub-agents. However, as our
evaluation is primarily based on more conversational back-and-forth between the specialist agents,
the one-time task assignment may not be sufficient. Therefore, we also expanded the OSF to support
multiple sub-agent interactions. The OSF also enables tool-use for its agents using ReAct-style
prompting [23], as opposed to native function-calling capability of our implementation.
In Table 12, we present a comparative analysis with the OSF. Due to the prompting style of the agents
in the OSF, they tend to be highly verbose and utilize a much higher number of tokens. To constrain
the experiment to a reasonable budget, we employ Claude 3.5 Sonnet (20240620) as the supervisor
agent and Claude 3.0 Sonnet as the specialist agents. Since the original prompts in the OSF may have
been optimized for GPT-4o (mini), as suggested by the defaults in the code implementation, we also
report the performance of GPT-4o (mini) with the OSF in the conversational setting.
7 Discussion
The results presented in this technical report demonstrate the effectiveness of MAC in enabling
coordinated problem-solving through multiple specialized agents. Across the evaluated domains
14

[[page 15]]
of Travel, Mortgage, and Software Development, the multi-agent collaboration approach achieved
impressive goal success rates, with the overall GSR reaching as high as 90% when utilizing the
Claude 3.5 Sonnet (20241022) models for both the supervisor agent and specialist agents. This strong
performance is particularly notable when compared to the single-agent setting, where a significant
regression of up to 37% was observed in the Software Development domain. The ability of the
multi-agent collaboration to leverage the specialized expertise of individual agents appears to be a
key factor in this improved effectiveness.
Further analysis of the results highlights the importance of optimizing the inter-agent communication
mechanisms. The impact of the payload referencing feature is most pronounced in the Software
Development domain, where it led to a 23% relative improvement in overall GSR as well as a 27%
relative reduction in the average communication overhead per turn. By allowing the supervisor agent
to more efficiently reference and share large content blocks, such as code snippets, this specialized
mechanism enhances the reliability and speed of the multi-agent interactions. However, the results
also reveal some limitations of the current system. The higher latency observed in the more complex
Software Development scenarios suggests that further optimizations may be needed to reduce the
overhead of multi-agent coordination, particularly in time-sensitive applications.
8 Conclusion
This paper presents a comprehensive evaluation of the multi-agent collaboration framework, demon-
strating its effectiveness in enabling coordinated problem-solving across a variety of enterprise
domains. The results highlight the system’s ability to leverage specialized agents to tackle complex
tasks, achieving impressive goal success rates of up to 90% in the evaluated scenarios. A key aspect
of MAC is the focus on optimizing the inter-agent communication mechanisms. The introduction of
the payload referencing feature, for example, was shown to provide significant benefits, particularly
in code-heavy tasks, by allowing the supervisor agent to more efficiently share and reference large
content blocks. This optimization has led to remarkable improvements in both the overall goal success
rate and the communication efficiency of the system.
Furthermore, the evaluation framework that is employed in this study, which combines assertion-
based benchmarking with automated LLM-based judgements, has proven to be a reliable and scalable
approach for assessing the performance of multi-agent collaborative systems. During development,
we observe high agreement rates on goal success between human and automated evaluation. This
validates our evaluation framework, which can enable faster prototyping and development of MAC.
One key focus for future work will be on further reducing the latency observed in more complex
scenarios, such as those in the Software Development domain. Exploring additional optimizations to
the inter-agent coordination mechanisms may help to address this challenge and ensure the system
can operate efficiently, even in time-sensitive applications. Additionally, expanding the detection and
handling of different forms of static long-form payloads could lead to additional performance gains.
Investigating automatic prompt optimization techniques may also prove valuable in enhancing the
collaboration capabilities of the individual agents.
Finally, automating the dataset curation process for the benchmarking framework could enable more
scalable and iterative development of the multi-agent system, allowing for faster prototyping and
deployment of improvements. By building on the solid foundations laid out in this technical report,
the future work in these areas promises to further strengthen MAC and its ability to tackle increasingly
complex, real-world challenges.
Acknowledgments
First, we want to thank the AWS Bedrock Agents Science team for their help in the project, notably
Tamer Alkhouli, Renato Negrinho, Veera Raghavendra Elluru, and Yassine Benajiba. We thank
Claudia Zaghi and Nina Rondoni for their substantial support in data collection. We thank the
AWS Bedrock Product team and solution architects for their crucial feedback on enterprise needs
and usecases. Finally, we want to acknowledge the AWS Bedrock Engineering team for diligently
deploying the multi-agents collaboration service and delivering our work on enterprise applications
to AWS customers.
15

[[page 16]]
References
[1] Anthropic. Claude 3.5 Sonnet, 2024. https://www.anthropic.com/news/
claude-3-5-sonnet , Accessed on 2024-12-06.
[2] Negar Arabzadeh, Siqing Huo, Nikhil Mehta, Qingyun Wu, Chi Wang, Ahmed Hassan Awadal-
lah, Charles L. A. Clarke, and Julia Kiseleva. Assessing and verifying task utility in LLM-
powered applications. In Empirical Methods of Natural Language Processing , 2024.
[3] Tom Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie Subbiah, Jared D Kaplan, Prafulla Dhariwal,
Arvind Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry, Amanda Askell, Sandhini Agarwal, Ariel
Herbert-V oss, Gretchen Krueger, Tom Henighan, Rewon Child, Aditya Ramesh, Daniel Ziegler,
Jeffrey Wu, Clemens Winter, Chris Hesse, Mark Chen, Eric Sigler, Mateusz Litwin, Scott
Gray, Benjamin Chess, Jack Clark, Christopher Berner, Sam McCandlish, Alec Radford, Ilya
Sutskever, and Dario Amodei. Language models are few-shot learners. In Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems, 2020.
[4] Weize Chen, Yusheng Su, Jingwei Zuo, Cheng Yang, Chenfei Yuan, Chen Qian, Chi-Min Chan,
Yujia Qin, Yaxi Lu, Ruobing Xie, et al. Agentverse: Facilitating multi-agent collaboration and
exploring emergent behaviors in agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.10848, 2023.
[5] CrewAI. CrewAI, 2024. https://www.crewai.com/, Accessed on 2024-12-06.
[6] Luca Gioacchini, Giuseppe Siracusano, Davide Sanvito, Kiril Gashteovski, David Friede,
Roberto Bifulco, and Carolin Lawrence. AgentQuest: A modular benchmark framework to
measure progress and improve LLM agents. In Annual Conference of the North American
Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics , 2024.
[7] Taicheng Guo, Xiuying Chen, Yaqi Wang, Ruidi Chang, Shichao Pei, Nitesh V Chawla, Olaf
Wiest, and Xiangliang Zhang. Large language model based multi-agents: A survey of progress
and challenges. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.01680, 2024.
[8] Shanshan Han, Qifan Zhang, Yuhang Yao, Weizhao Jin, Zhaozhuo Xu, and Chaoyang He. Llm
multi-agent systems: Challenges and open problems. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.03578, 2024.
[9] Sirui Hong, Mingchen Zhuge, Jonathan Chen, Xiawu Zheng, Yuheng Cheng, Jinlin Wang, Ceyao
Zhang, Zili Wang, Steven Ka Shing Yau, Zijuan Lin, Liyang Zhou, Chenyu Ran, Lingfeng
Xiao, Chenglin Wu, and Jürgen Schmidhuber. MetaGPT: Meta programming for a multi-agent
collaborative framework. In International Conference on Learning Representations , 2024.
[10] Sayash Kapoor, Benedikt Stroebl, Zachary S Siegel, Nitya Nadgir, and Arvind Narayanan. AI
Agents That Matter. arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.01502, 2024.
[11] LangChain. LangGraph, 2024. https://www.langchain.com/langgraph, Accessed on
2024-12-06.
[12] Guohao Li, Hasan Abed Al Kader Hammoud, Hani Itani, Dmitrii Khizbullin, and Bernard
Ghanem. Camel: Communicative agents for "mind" exploration of large language model society.
In Neural Information Processing Systems, 2023.
[13] Huao Li, Yu Chong, Simon Stepputtis, Joseph Campbell, Dana Hughes, Charles Lewis, and
Katia Sycara. Theory of mind for multi-agent collaboration via large language models. In
Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing , 2023.
[14] Jiarui Lu, Thomas Holleis, Yizhe Zhang, Bernhard Aumayer, Feng Nan, Felix Bai, Shuang Ma,
Shen Ma, Mengyu Li, Guoli Yin, et al. Toolsandbox: A stateful, conversational, interactive
evaluation benchmark for llm tool use capabilities. arXiv preprint arXiv:2408.04682, 2024.
[15] OpenAI. Hello GPT-4o, 2024. https://openai.com/index/hello-gpt-4o/ , Accessed
on 2024-12-06.
[16] Joon Sung Park, Joseph C. O’Brien, Carrie J. Cai, Meredith Ringel Morris, Percy Liang, and
Michael S. Bernstein. Generative agents: Interactive simulacra of human behavior. In ACM
Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology , 2023.
16

[[page 17]]
[17] Chen Qian, Wei Liu, Hongzhang Liu, Nuo Chen, Yufan Dang, Jiahao Li, Cheng Yang, Weize
Chen, Yusheng Su, Xin Cong, Juyuan Xu, Dahai Li, Zhiyuan Liu, and Maosong Sun. ChatDev:
Communicative agents for software development. In Annual Meeting of the Association for
Computational Linguistics, 2024.
[18] Munindar P Singh. Multiagent systems. Springer, 1994.
[19] Andries Petrus Smit, Nathan Grinsztajn, Paul Duckworth, Thomas D Barrett, and Arnu Pretorius.
Should we be going mad? a look at multi-agent debate strategies for llms. In International
Conference on Machine Learning, 2024.
[20] Katia P Sycara. Multiagent systems. AI magazine, 19(2):79–79, 1998.
[21] Yashar Talebirad and Amirhossein Nadiri. Multi-agent collaboration: Harnessing the power of
intelligent llm agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.03314, 2023.
[22] Qingyun Wu, Gagan Bansal, Jieyu Zhang, Yiran Wu, Beibin Li, Erkang Zhu, Li Jiang, Xiaoyun
Zhang, Shaokun Zhang, Jiale Liu, Ahmed Hassan Awadallah, Ryen W White, Doug Burger,
and Chi Wang. AutoGen: Enabling next-gen llm applications via multi-agent conversation
framework. In COLM, 2024.
[23] Shunyu Yao, Jeffrey Zhao, Dian Yu, Nan Du, Izhak Shafran, Karthik Narasimhan, and Yuan
Cao. ReAct: Synergizing reasoning and acting in language models. In International Conference
on Learning Representations, 2023.
[24] Jintian Zhang, Xin Xu, Ningyu Zhang, Ruibo Liu, Bryan Hooi, and Shumin Deng. Exploring
collaboration mechanisms for LLM agents: A social psychology view. In Annual Meeting of
the Association for Computational Linguistics , 2024.
[25] Yang Zhang, Shixin Yang, Chenjia Bai, Fei Wu, Xiu Li, Zhen Wang, and Xuelong Li.
Towards efficient LLM grounding for embodied multi-agent collaboration. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2405.14314, 2024.
17

[[page 18]]
Appendix
A Benchmarking Data Artifacts
Table 13: Example artifacts from benchmarking data collection
Artifact Example
Scenario Goals:
* User needs to book a ticket for a round-trip economy
flight from DEN to RST, departing on June 23, and returning
on June 30.
* User needs to book a room in Rochester, Minnesota from
June 23 to June 30.
* User needs to obtain total estimated cost of flight,
hotel, food, and local transportation for their 7-day trip,
given their $2,500 weekly budget.
Background:
* User’s full name is Gregory James Anderson.
* Gregory is 36 years old.
* Gregory resides in Denver, Colorado.
* Gregory’s preferred class for flights is economy.
Input Problem Please book a ticket for a round-trip economy flight from
DEN to RST, departing on June 23.
Assertions User-side assertions:
* User is informed that a ticket for an economy flight from
DEN to RST departing on June 23 have been booked.
* User is informed that a ticket for an economy flight from
RST to DEN have been booked. The flight from DEN to RST
departs on June 30.
* User is informed that a room in a hotel in Rochester,
Minnesota from June 23 to June 30 has been booked
* User is informed of the total estimated cost including
flight, hotel, food, and local transportation for their
7-day trip from Denver to Minnesota, given their $2,500
weekly budget.
System-side assertions:
* book_flight is executed to book two tickets for a
round-trip economy flight from DEN to RST on June 23
* book_hotel is executed to book a hotel in Minnesota from
June 23 to June 30
* search_flight is executed before book_flight to provide
the user with flight options before performing the booking
* search_hotel is executed before book_hotel to provide the
user with options before booking
* calculate is executed to get the total estimated cost for
flight, hotel, food, and local transportation for his 7-day
trip from Denver to Minnesota for one person, given their
$2,500 weekly budget
18

[[page 19]]
B Agent Profiles
Table 14: List of agents for each benchmarking domain. Supervisor agents are bolded. We also list
their action groups, which are sets of tools that the agents have access to.
Domain/Usecase Agent Name Action Groups
Travel Planning
Travel agent
Weather agent Weather
Location search agent LocationService
Car rental agent CarRental
Flight agent BookFlight
Hotel agent BookHotel
Travel budget agent Calculator
Restaurant agent RestaurantSearch, FoodDelivery
Local expert agent Eventbrite, NewsSeartch
Airbnb agent BookAirbnb
Mortgage Financing
Mortgage agent MortgageLoans
Property agent LocationService, RealEstateManagement
Credit agent Banking, CreditReport
Income agent HRPayrollBenefits, Calculator
Payment agent Calculator
Closing agent Calculator, RealEstateManagement
Software Development
Software agent
Design agent
Code agent
Test agent SoftwareDevelopment
Review agent SoftwareDevelopment
Deploy agent
Infrastructure agent CodeDeployment
Application agent CodeDeployment
C Full results of Coordination Mode
Table 15: Full End-to-end evaluation of Coordination Mode
Setting Dataset Overall
GSR
Supervisor
GSR
User-
side
GSR
System-
side
GSR
Supervisor: Sonnet 3.5 (20241022)
Specialists: Sonnet 3.5 (20241022)
Travel 0.90 0.90 1.00 0.90
Mortgage 0.90 0.93 0.93 0.90
Software 0.90 1.00 1.00 0.90
Supervisor: Sonnet 3.5 (20241022)
Specialists: Sonnet 3.0
Travel 0.87 0.90 0.90 0.87
Mortgage 0.90 0.97 0.90 0.87
Software 0.77 0.90 0.80 0.83
Supervisor: Sonnet 3.5 (20241022)
Specialists: Haiku 3.5
Travel 0.80 0.87 0.83 0.83
Mortgage 0.83 0.90 0.90 0.87
Software 0.87 0.93 0.90 0.97
Single-agent: Sonnet 3.5 (20241022)
Travel 0.60 – 0.67 0.67
Mortgage 0.80 – 0.80 0.83
Software 0.53 – 0.67 0.60
19

[[page 20]]
Table 16: Full Latency Performance of Coordination Mode
Setting Dataset
Avg.
communication
overhead
per turn (s)
Avg.
user-perceived
turn latency
per session (s)
Avg.
communications
per session
Avg. output
tokens per
communication
Supervisor: Sonnet 3.5 (20241022)
Specialists: Sonnet 3.5 (20241022)
Travel 13.75 31.46 8.63 225.88
Mortgage 13.39 24.42 7.27 201.66
Software 35.44 168.73 7.59 373.77
Supervisor: Sonnet 3.5 (20241022)
Specialists: Sonnet 3.0
Travel 15.43 42.12 7.51 276.18
Mortgage 15.97 29.90 6.69 286.21
Software 53.48 137.31 9.11 490.78
Supervisor: Sonnet 3.5 (20241022)
Specialists: Haiku 3.5
Travel 12.95 23.98 9.73 236.27
Mortgage 11.03 18.13 6.93 202.87
Software 36.65 125.31 8.07 388.79
Single-agent: Sonnet 3.5 (20241022)
Travel – 14.12 – –
Mortgage – 9.12 – –
Software – 52.61 – –
D Human Evaluation Results
Table 17: The automatic and human evaluation results. Note that these set of experiments were from
an intermediate milestone checkpoint of MAC.
Dataset Overall GSR Supervisor GSR User-side GSR System-side GSR
Automatic Evaluation
Travel 0.87 0.90 0.90 0.87
Mortgage 0.90 0.97 0.97 0.90
Software 0.77 0.90 0.80 0.83
Human Evaluation
Travel 0.93 0.90 0.97 0.93
Mortgage 0.97 0.97 0.97 0.97
Software 0.73 0.87 0.80 0.73
20