[[page 1]]
1198 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SOFTW ARE ENGINEERING, VOL. 52, NO. 4, APRIL 2026
iRUC: Reducing Inter-Microservice Data
Communication in Data-Intensive Systems via
Uniﬁed Computation
Puwei Wang , Ruiheng Liu , Keman Huang , and Xiaoyong Du , Member, IEEE
Abstract—In data-intensive microservice-based systems, fre-
quent and large-scale inter-service communication poses a critical
performance bottleneck, degrading throughput and escalating
latency. Existing solutions exhib it notable limitations: microser-
vice merging sacriﬁces loose coupling and system evolvability;
resource-aware scheduling enhances communication efﬁciency
but fails to reduce data volume; dynamic deployment reduces net-
work distances while introducing compute-resource contention;
and unnecessary data transfer elimination remains ineffective
under massive data loads. Hence, to overcome these challenges,
we propose iRUC, an approach for inter-service data com-
munication Reduction via Uniﬁed Computation. In particular,
we ﬁrst design GraphQL+, an executable declarative language
that extends GraphQL with service-interaction semantics to
achieve uniﬁed, cross-language modeling of data processing
and transmission across microservices. Second, we develop an
LLM-based multi-agent system leveraging Claude 4.5 Sonnet
and Gemini 2.5 Pro to automatically parse microservice code
and synthesize corresponding GraphQL+ models. Third, we
implement the uniﬁed execution engine for GraphQL+ models,
including the database gateway that preserves microservice
database autonomy while enabling cross-database queries. This
design enables iRUC to perform the uniﬁed modeling and exe-
cution of data processing and transmission across microservices,
thereby signiﬁcantly reducing inter-service data transfer while
maintaining microservice independence. Experimental evaluation
on nine GitHub open-source microservice projects deployed on
Huawei Cloud demonstrates iRUC’s effectiveness: compared with
the unnecessary transfer elimination, dynamic deployment, and
serverless computing approaches, iRUC improves throughput by
5.57×, 1.52 ×, and 1.87 ×, respectively, while reducing latency
to 7.7%, 40.7%, and 37.4% of those approaches. These results
show that iRUC achieves signiﬁcant performance improvements
in large-scale data processing scenarios.
Received 16 May 2025; revised 31 December 2025; accepted 15 January
2026. Date of publication 23 Ja nuary 2026; date of current version 20 April
2026. This work was supported in part by the National Key Research and
Development Program of China under Grant 2022YFB2702102 and in part
by the National Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant 62172425,
Grant 62572474, Grant 62436010, and Grant 62441230. Recommended for
acceptance by S. McIntosh. ( Corresponding author: Keman Huang .)
The authors are with the School of Information and with the Key
Laboratory of Data Engineering and Knowledge Engineering of the Min-
istry of Education, Renmin University of China, Beijing 100872, China
(e-mail: wangpuwei@ruc.edu.cn; liuruiheng@ruc.edu.cn; keman@ruc.edu.cn;
duyong@ruc.edu.cn).
Digital Object Identiﬁ er 10.1109/TSE.2026.3656819
Index Terms—Inter-Service data communication, GraphQL+,
LLM-based multi-agent syst em, uniﬁed computation.
I. I NTRODUCTION
T
HE proliferation of large-scale data generation and its
strategic importance have catalyzed the development of
data-intensive systems, which are engineered to extract insights
from massive and dynamic datasets [1], [2]. As these systems
scale, managing the complexity arising from both application
logic and data processing pipelines has become increasingly
important [3]. To improve modularity, scalability, and service-
level reusability, microservice architecture has emerged as a
widely adopted design paradigm [4]. However, this architec-
tural shift introduces additional runtime challenges, particu-
larly the overhead associated with inter-microservice data com-
munication, which is ampliﬁed in data-intensive systems [5],
[6]. In such systems, frequent and high-volume data exchange
among microservices can markedly degrade throughput and
increase bandwidth usage [7]. These observations highlight the
importance of exploring more efﬁcient inter-service communi-
cation approaches, especially in scenarios where data transfer
constitutes a primary performance bottleneck [8].
To address the data- communication bottleneck between
microservices, existing research has primarily focused on three
optimization strategies. First, the service granularity design
strategy [9], [10] merges microservices with high-frequency
interactions based on data-transfer overhead to eliminate
runtime cross-microservice data transfer. But, these approaches
partially compromise the loose-coupling principle: merged
microservices often differ signiﬁcantly in business logic
and lifecycle management, while merging them increases
system complexity, reduces independent evolvability and
maintainability, and undermines the agility needed to respond
quickly to user requirements. Second, the resource-aware
scheduling strategy [11], [12] optimizes communication
efﬁciency by predicting service load and dynamically adjusting
CPU, memory, and network-bandwidth allocations. Although
such approaches can enhance communication efﬁciency to
some extent, they increase resource consumption and do not
fundamentally resolve the root cause of inter-service data
transfer. Third, the dynamic deployment strategy [13], [14],
[15] co-locates frequently interacting microservices on the
same node to shorten network paths and lower latency. But,
0098-5589 © 2026 IEEE. All rights reserved, includi ng rights for text and data mining, and train ing of artiﬁcial intelligen ce and similar technologi es.
Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission. See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nova Southeastern University. Downloaded on August 30,2026 at 07:04:34 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

[[page 2]]
W ANG et al.: IRUC: REDUCING INTER-MICROSERVICE DATA COMMUNICATION IN DATA-INTENSIVE SYSTEMS 1199
beyond increasing the complexity of system maintenance,
large-scale centralized deployments are constrained by
compute resources: when many services share a single server,
contention for CPU and memory can lead to performance
degradation.
Hence, while existing strategies offer promising solutions for
enhancing the communication performance of microservice-
based data-intensive systems, they can only alleviate data-
communication bottlenecks to a certain extent. They fall short
of fundamentally reducing the volume of data exchanged
between microservices, and thus cannot achieve a substantive
improvement in overall system performance. Recent studies
begin to focus on the data transfer load itself, seeking to
reduce transmission volumes at its source. Genfer et al. [16]
highlight that problematic service interfaces or unclear service
responsibilities can lead to the exchange of unnecessary data,
exacerbating the data communication burden. Tariq et al. [17]
further propose MicroProf, a dynamic program analysis tool
for Java-based microservice applications, to detect and identify
unnecessary data transfers. However, in scenarios involving
large volumes of data, the inter-service data transmission
remains a performance bottleneck. Therefore, in data-intensive
systems, it is not sufﬁcient to focus only on “how data is
transmitted”; it is important to explore the issue of “how to
minimize the data that needs to be transmitted” .
This motivates us to explore a new strategy that can
minimize inter-service data transmission in microservice-
based data-intensive systems. Particularly, in these systems,
data transmission and processing are typically fragmented
and distributed across different microservices, resulting in
excessive inter-service communication overhead. To address
this issue, we propose iRUC, an approach for inter-service
data communication Reduction via Uniﬁed Computation. The
core of iRUC is the uniﬁed computation : uniformly modeling
data processing and transmission across microservices and
executing them centrally through a dedicated engine.
Building on this idea, for data processing and transmis-
sion, we design GraphQL+, a declarative executable language
based on GraphQL [18], supporting ﬁne-grained and ﬂexible
expression of the data-related semantics. Additionally, to ensure
compatibility with loosely coupled microservice systems, we
develop a large language model (LLM)-based multi-agent sys-
tem. Leveraging LLMs’ advanced understanding of program-
ming languages [19], [20], [21], the agent system decomposes
the modeling tasks into a set of subtasks and assigns them to
specialized agents for collaborative processing. It automatically
analyzes microservice source code to identify data processing
and transmission, generating corresponding GraphQL+ models.
Upon service code updates, the agent system synchronizes the
GraphQL+ models, thereby preserving the independent main-
tenance and deployment capabilities of microservices. Fur-
thermore, for the generated GraphQL+ models, we implement
an execution engine integrated with a database gateway. The
engine merges the GraphQL+ models generated from microser-
vices into a composite model and then centrally executes it,
while the gateway provides a data access layer that preserves
the autonomy of individual microservice databases and enables
seamless cross-database queries. The iRUC approach uniformly
models data processing and transmission across microservices,
then moves them to a database-adjacent node for centralized
execution, thereby eliminating inter-service data communica-
tion and substantially improving system performance.
To validate the effectiveness of our approach, we select
nine open-source microservice systems from GitHub as
our experimental subjects. For the LLM-based multi-agent
systems, we employ Claude 4.5 Sonnet API to automatically
generate GraphQL+ models and use Gemini 2.5 Pro for
functionality checking, with tests conﬁrming their correctness.
All systems are deployed on Huawei Cloud to replicate
real-world conditions. We compare our approach against three
baselines: the excessive data-transfer removal approach (ER),
the dynamic deployment approach (DD) and the serverless
computing approach (SC). On average, the iRUC approach
achieves 5.57× the throughput of ER, 1.52 × that of DD and
1.87× that of SC. In terms of latency, it reduces latency to
only 7.7% of that of ER, 40.7% of that of DD and 37.4% of
that of SC.
In summary, we make contributions as follows:
• We design GraphQL+, a declarative executable language
that provides uniﬁed cross-language modeling of data pro-
cessing and transmission across microservices;
• We develop an LLM-basedmulti-agent system that gener-
ates and synchronizes GraphQL+ models from microser-
vice code, pres erving compatibility w ith loosely coupled
microservice architectures;
• We implement a GraphQL+ execution engine to efﬁciently
parse and execute the GraphQL+ models and design a
uniﬁed database gateway that supports transparent cross-
database queries while preserving individual database
autonomy;
• We select nine popular GitHub microservice systems and
use Claude 4.5 Sonnet and Gemini 2.5 Pro to automati-
cally generate and check GraphQL+ models. We deploy
these systems on Huawei Cloud, and the experimental
results demonstrate signiﬁcant performance improvements
in throughput and latency, especially in large-scale data
scenarios.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Sec-
tion II presents a motivation case. Section III describes the
design of iRUC. SectionIV presents experimental results based
on nine open-source microservice projects from GitHub. Sec-
tion V reviews the related work. Section VI discusses potential
threats to validity and outlines directions for future research and
practice. Finally, Section VII concludes the paper.
II. M OTIVATION CASE
To better illustrate our appr oach, we use the open-source
microservice system go-zero-look (https://github.com/
Mikaelemmmm/go-zero-looklook) as a motivating example.
This system has two microservices: order-API and payment-
RPC, which collaborate to retrieve order information and
third-party payment details. Fig. 1 presents a simpliﬁed version
of the relevant code. The order-API service ﬁrst retrieves order
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nova Southeastern University. Downloaded on August 30,2026 at 07:04:34 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

[[page 3]]
1200 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SOFTW ARE ENGINEERING, VOL. 52, NO. 4, APRIL 2026
Fig. 1. The service call between or der-API and payment-RPC services
(https://github.com/mikaelemmmm/go-zero-looklook/tree/main).
details from its database using the serial number (Line 1) and
handles any errors that occur (Line 2). It then sends an RPC
request to the payment-RPC service, passing the serial number
as input (Line 3). The payment-RPC service then queries its
database for the corresponding third-party payment details
(Line 10) and returns them to the order-API service (Line 11).
Upon receiving the response, the order-API service copies the
order details into a response object and assigns the retrieved
payment details to it (Lines 4–8). Finally, the DetailResp object
containing the order and payment details is returned to the
client (Line 9).
As this microservice system scales with more users, the vol-
ume of transferred data grows rapidly, leading to massive net-
work data transfer. This results in a sharp increase in latency and
a substantial drop in throughput. To evaluate the impact of data
transfer, we deploy this microservice system on Huawei Cloud.
Experimental results show that when the data size per request
exceeds 1MB, the response latency surpasses 1 second. Espe-
cially, when the data size reaches 6 MB, the latency exceeds 5
seconds, severely degrading user experience. Breakdown anal-
ysis reveals that inter-service data transmission accounts for
about 80% of the total latency, making it the primary perfor-
mance bottleneck.
Hence, in this study, our goal is to revisit the microservice
architecture for data-intensive systems to resolve the inter-
service data communication overhead. Using the order-API
service code in Fig. 1 as an example, there is a function
userOrderDetail which involves data processing and transmission
with the payment-RPC service. We can categorize the code into
ﬁve types based on how they manage the related data:
(1) Data Query (Line 1): Operations for creating, reading,
updating, and deleting data in the database, typically
managed by persistence frameworks such as JPA or
MyBatis;
(2) Logging/Error Handling (Line 2): Capturing logs and
handling exceptions to improve system observability and
ensure operational stability;
(3) Remote Procedure Call (RPC) (Line 3): Inter-service
communication, typically implemented via protocols like
gRPC or RESTful APIs;
(4) Data Processing (Lines 4-8): Data computations or trans-
formations that do not involve persistent storage access
or remote service calls;
(5) Return (Line 9): Returns the processed result to the clients
or other services, typically as the service response.
In these ﬁve types of code, our focus is on data query, data
processing, remote procedure call and return handling, as they
are related to data transmission across microservices. For data
query, GraphQL [18] provides a ﬂexible and efﬁcient way to
access data. It allows clients to request only the data they need,
avoiding the issues of over-fetching (retrieving unnecessary
data) or under-fetching (not retrieving enough data). For its
ﬁne-grained data quer ying abilities, GraphQL allows multiple
resources to be fetched in a single request, eliminating the need
for multiple round trips to the database server. This feature
optimizes database access and minimizes the overhead of net-
work communication. However, as shown in Fig. 1,t h e order-
API service code includes more than just data query, and it also
involves service call and data processing.
To this end, inspired by the design principle of GraphQL,
we design GraphQL+, a language-agnostic declarative exe-
cutable language built on the top of GraphQL, to unify the
data query, processing and transmission between microservices.
Additionally, we develop the iRUC approach to abstract the
data processing and transmission between microservices into
the GraphQL+ models, which are subsequently deployed on a
database-adjacent node for uniﬁed computation by a dedicated
engine. As this approach enables the uniﬁed modeling and
execution of data processing and transmission across microser-
vices, it effectively eliminates the inter-service data transfer and
enhances overall system performance.
III. S YSTEM DESIGN
As illustrated in Fig. 2, we propose iRUC, an approach
for inter-service data communication Reduction via Uniﬁed
Computation, aiming at eliminating the inter-service
data transfer among microservices. Microservices feature
a loosely coupled architecture, supporting independent
deployment and maintenance while continuously adapting
to dynamic business requirements through iterative updates.
Microservice operations can be categorized into two types:
update (code modiﬁcation) and execution (handling user
requests). For update operations, when the microservice
code changes, the iRUC approach synchronously updates its
corresponding GraphQL+ model. To automate the generation
and updating of models, we develop a multi-agent system
based on large language models (LLMs) that analyzes
microservice code to generate or update the GraphQL+
models. The GraphQL+ models of data-transfer-related
microservices are then composed into a composite model,
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nova Southeastern University. Downloaded on August 30,2026 at 07:04:34 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

[[page 4]]
W ANG et al.: IRUC: REDUCING INTER-MICROSERVICE DATA COMMUNICATION IN DATA-INTENSIVE SYSTEMS 1201
Fig. 2. iRUC: An approach for inter-service data communication overhead reduction through uniﬁed computation.
Fig. 3. GraphQL+ Speciﬁcation in PEG.
preserving the microse rvices’ capability for independent
deployment and maintenance. When large volumes of
inter-data communication occur, the microservice execution
operations usually face heavy load pressure. To address this
issue, iRUC adopts a uniﬁed computation paradigm that
executes the composite GraphQL+ model centrally, effectively
eliminating the overhead caused by inter-service data
transfer.
In Section III-A, we design GraphQL+, a formally
deﬁned, declarative and executable language, enabling the
uniﬁed model for data processing and transmission across
microservices. In Section III-B, we propose an LLM-
based multi-agent system to aut omatically generate the
GraphQL+ model from the microservice code. In SectionIII-C,
we implement the GraphQL+ engine integrated with the
database gateway.
A. GraphQL+ Speciﬁcation
GraphQL+ is formally deﬁned using PEG (Parsing
Expression Grammar) [22], a parsing-expression-based
formalism that ensures rigorous, implementation-friendly
syntax rules. As shown in Fig. 3, GraphQL+ consists of the
following types of statements:
Data Query (dataQueryStmt) The statement deﬁnes the
interactions between microservices and databases. It is built
upon GraphQL, with explicit variable declarations for variable
tracking and management.
”new” variable ”=” ”gql” (”query” / ”mutation”) ”{” gplBody ”}” ”;”
where the gqlBody encapsulates the GraphQL operations, and
the result is subsequently assigned to the variable. The variable
is a local variable, scoped only within the microservice.
For example, the query getOrderBySn(sn: Sn) can be formally
described as below. It retrieves an order based on the serial
number, returning the ﬁelds id, sn, description, with the result
assigned to the local variable order@e2c17.
new order@e2c17 = gql query {
getOrderBySn(sn: in.Sn) {
id
sn
description
}
};
Assignment ( assignStmt) We classify variables into two
types of variable scopes: local variables and global variables.
Local variables are valid only within individual microservices,
while global variables facilitate data transmissi on across ser-
vices. The assignment statements deﬁne the mapping between
local variables and global variables.
”assign” globalVariable ”=” variable ”;”
”assign” variable ”=” globalVariable ”;”
The ﬁrst statement assigns a local variable to a global vari-
able, and the second assigns a global variable to a local variable.
A global variable can be explicitly deﬁned using the statement
globalVariable← service ”.”variable, where the variable is preﬁxed
by a service identiﬁer ( service).
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nova Southeastern University. Downloaded on August 30,2026 at 07:04:34 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

[[page 5]]
1202 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SOFTW ARE ENGINEERING, VOL. 52, NO. 4, APRIL 2026
For example, the local variableorder@e2c17.Sn is assigned to
the global variable order-API.orderSnReq.OrderSn.
assign order-API.OrderSnReq.OrderSn = order@e2c17.Sn;
Service Call ( serviceCallStmt) The statement deﬁnes the
interaction between microservices, including the following
statements:
• Assignment (request): It assigns a local variable to a global
one, which is used as the request.
”assign” globalVariable ”=” variable ”;”
where globalVariable ← service ”.” variable represents a
global variable used as the request for inter-service com-
munication, service refers to the invoking service, and
the right-hand variable represents a local variable deﬁned
within that service.
• Remote call: It explicitly declares the invocation relation-
ships between services.
”call” service ”;”
where service is the identiﬁer of the service to be invoked.
• Assignment (response): It speciﬁes the variable designated
to hold the response returned by the invoked service.
”assign” variable ”=” globalVariable ”;”
where globalVariable ← service ”.” variable represents a
global variable carrying the response, service refers to the
invoked service, and the left-handvariable represents a local
variable within the invoking service designated to store
that response.
We take the following service call between the order-
API and payment-RPC services as an example. The variable
order@e2c17.Sn is assigned to the global variable order-
API.OrderSnReq.OrderSn, which is then submitted to the
payment-RPC service. After the remote invocation completes, the
response stored in the global variable payment-RPC.OrderSnResp
is assigned to the local variable payResp@a7bf9 within the
order-API service.
assign order-API.OrderSnReq.OrderSn = order@e2c17.Sn;
call payment-RPC;
assign payResp@a7bf9 = payment-RPC.OrderSnResp;
Plugin Call ( pluginCallStmt) The data-processing code is
often tightly coupled with business logic. We encapsulate it into
self-contained, executable plugins and deﬁne corresponding
call statements to enable data processing . As shown in Fig. 1,
the order-API service copies the order details into an object and
assigns the retrieved payment details to the object (Lines 4-8).
We encapsulate the part of code into a procOrderHandle function
and compile it into an executable plugin ﬁle as orderDetail.so.
The plugin call statement deﬁnes how to invoke a plugin,
without involving service calls or database interactions.
”new” variableList ”=” ”plugin” ﬁle ”/” function ”(” variableList ”)” ”;”
where ﬁle is the executable plugin ﬁle, function is the func-
tion that encapsulates the data processing logic of the ser-
vice and variableList is the list of inputs and outputs of the
function.
Following is an example that invokes the procOrderHandle
function from the orderDetail.so plugin ﬁle. It takes the variables
order@e2c17 and payResp@a7bf9 as the inputs, and the output is
subsequently assigned to the variable resp@9d66c.
new resp@9d66c = plugin orderDetail.so/
procOrderHandle(order@e2c17, payResp@a7bf9);
Return ( returnStmt) The statement deﬁnes how a service
concludes its execution, including the following statements:
• Assignment: It speciﬁes the global variable to which the
return value is assigned.
”assign” globalVariable ”=” variable ”;”
where globalVariable ← service ”.” variable represents the
global variable to which the return value is assigned, ser-
vice refers to the current service, and variable represents a
local variable deﬁned within that service.
• Terminate: It terminates the service and returns the global
variable.
”return” globalVariable ”;”
For example, the local variable resp@9d66c is assigned to
the global variable order-API.DetailResp.Order, which is then
returned as the output of the order-API service.
assign order-API.DetailResp.Order = resp@9d66c;
return order-API.DetailResp;
In summary, with GraphQL+, the data processing and trans-
mission across microservices can be abstracted into uniﬁed,
cross-language models. A GraphQL+ model includes a declar-
ative document that formally describes data queries, service
invocations, plugin calls, and return handling, as well as
a set of executable plugin packages that encapsulate the
data-processing logic of individual microservices .
B. LLM-Based GraphQL+ Generation
Manually developing GraphQL+ models for microservices
is a non-trivial task. To automate this process, we design a
large language model (LLM)-bas ed multi-agent system. This
system leverages the strengths of multiple agents, which are
particularly effective when complex tasks are decomposed into
smaller, manageable subtasks. Recent research works have
shown that such multi-agent archit ectures can iteratively solve
complex problems by delegating each subtask to an agent
equipped with speci alized capabilities [20], [21]. We adopt a
conversation-based prompt engineering approach for the multi-
agent system. Each agent is ﬁrst presented with an illustrative
example that demonstrates the desired output. Subsequently,
new inputs are introduced, and the agent’s preliminary outputs
are iteratively reﬁned through multi-round interactions. In
each iteration, we explicitly i dentify shortcomings in the
output and provide targeted corrective feedback. Through
progressive reﬁnement, the agent achieves stable and accurate
performance. The conversation summary is then integrated
into the system prompt, which, in conjunction with the task
prompt, enables the agent to effectively perform its designated
tasks. An example system prompt is provided in Appendix A
of the supplementary materials.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nova Southeastern University. Downloaded on August 30,2026 at 07:04:34 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

[[page 6]]
W ANG et al.: IRUC: REDUCING INTER-MICROSERVICE DATA COMMUNICATION IN DATA-INTENSIVE SYSTEMS 1203
As shown in Fig. 2, the LLM-based multi-agent system for
generating GraphQL+ models from microservice code consists
of the following sub-tasks:
Labeling: This task is to analyze microservice code using
the following task prompt, aiming at achieving a deep under-
standing of code functionality.
Speciﬁcally, for data-query operations, it identiﬁes
explicit queries and infers implicit query logic expressed via
ORM (Object-Relational Mapping) frameworks. For service
calls, it performs semantic analysis by leveraging contextual
information and parameter structures. Leveraging LLMs’
cross-language understanding, the task generalizes across
programming languages and coding styles.
We use the order-API code illustrated in Fig.1 as an example.
The LLM-based agent categorizes the code into ﬁve types and
adds comments for distinction. The code begins by querying the
database for an order record (labeled by (1)) using the provided
serial number, immediately followed by error handling (labeled
by (2)) that logs database errors. After retrieving the order, it
constructs a request to fetch the associated payment details and
makes an RPC call to the payment-RPC service (labeled by (3)).
Finally, it assembles a response object including the order and
payment details (labeled by (4)), and then returns it (labeled
by (5)).
func (l *OrderDetailLogic) userOrderDetail(in *pb.OrderDetailReq)
(*pb.DetailResp, error) {
//(1) Data Query
order, err:= l.svcCtx.OrderModel.FindOneBySn(l.ctx, in.Sn)
//(1) end
//(2) Logging/Error Handling
if err != nil && err != model.ErrNotFound {
return nil, errors.Wrapf(xerr.NewErrCode(xerr.DB_ERROR),
”OrderModel FindOneBySn db err : %v , sn : %s”, err, in.Sn)
}//(2) end
//(3) RPC
payResp, err := l.svcCtx.PaymentRpc.GetByOrderSn(l.ctx, &OrderSnReq{
OrderSn: order.Sn
})//(3) end
//(4) Data Processing
var resp pb.Order
if order != nil {
_ = copier.Copy(&resp, order)
resp.paymentDetail = payResp
}//(4) end
//(5) Return
return &pb.DetailResp {
Order: &resp,
}, nil
//(5) end
}
Modularizing: An LLM-based agent modularizes the code
labeled (4) into self-contained functions with well-deﬁned inter-
faces, analyzes dependencies to preserve logical coherence,
and extracts the required input and output parameters. This
decouples data processing from queries and service invoca-
tions, improving maintainability. The generated functions have
the following characteristics: 1) Self-containment: The func-
tion operates independently, requiring no external variables.
All necessary information is passed through parameters; 2)
Interface clarity: The func tion explicitly deﬁnes its input and
return parameters, ensuring clear invocation boundaries and
enabling reuse; 3) High cohesion: The function focuses on
the data processing, avoiding the mixing of data queries and
transmission logic, thereby enhancing functional cohesion.
Hence, we design the following task prompt to lead the
agent to encapsulate the code labeled by (4) into the modular
functions.
For example, theorder-API code labeled as (4) is encapsulated
into the procOrder function, which processes the order and
payResp objects as input to generate a response. It has clear
input and output interfaces, operates independently without
external dependencies, and focuses on data processing.
func (l *OrderDetailLogic) procOrder(order pb.Order, payResp pb.OrderSnResp)
*pb.Order) {
var resp pb.Order
if order != nil && payResp!= nil {
_ = copier.Copy(&resp, order)
resp.paymentDetail = payResp
}
return resp
}
Packaging: This task is to encapsulate the modular functions
into the dedicated plugin packages. Using the following task
prompt, an LLM-based agent encapsulates the functions (e.g.,
procOrder(&order,& payResp)) into standardized plugin packages
(e.g., procOrderHandle(input []byte)( [ ]byte, error)). They process
JSON inputs and return JSON outputs, implementing speciﬁc
data processing logic locally without relying on database oper-
ations or remote service calls.
func procOrderHandle(input []byte) ([]byte, error) {
var order pb.Order
if err := json.Unmarshal(input[0], &order); err != nil {
return nil, fmt.Errorf(”invalid input JSON: %w”, err)
}
var payResp pb.OrderSnResp
if err := json.Unmarshal(input[1], &payResp); err != nil {
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nova Southeastern University. Downloaded on August 30,2026 at 07:04:34 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

[[page 7]]
1204 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SOFTW ARE ENGINEERING, VOL. 52, NO. 4, APRIL 2026
return nil, fmt.Errorf(”invalid input JSON: %w”, err)
}
detailResp, err := procOrder(&order, &payResp)
response := map[string]string{
pluginName: ”procOrder”
order: detailResp
}
responseJSON, err := json.Marshal(response)
if err != nil {
return nil, err
}
return responseJSON, nil
}
Once compiled, the plugin package becomes a binary ﬁle that
can be dynamically loaded and invoked at runtime. For exam-
ple, Go provides a built-in pl ugin environment that supports
loading shared libraries (.so ﬁles) as plugins. By running the
command: go build -buildmode=plugin -o orderDetail.so, the plugin
package is compiled into an executable ﬁleorderDetail.so, which
can be loaded and executed at runtime.
Generating: This task is to generate a GraphQL+ document
from the annotated code using the following task prompt.
#Task Description
Y ou will be provided with the annotated code. Y our task is to generate a
GraphQL+ document from the annotated code.
Notes:
1. For type (1), generate data query statements that describe the database
operation based on its semantics;
2. For type (2), simply ignore them;
3. For type (3), generate service call statements;
4. For type (4), generate plugin call statements;
5. For type (5), generate return statements.
In particular, for the code labeled as (1) involving data
queries, the agent performs semantic analysis to generate
GraphQL statements, mapping data types and ﬁelds to the
database schema. The code labeled as (2), such as logging and
error handling, is skipped since the GraphQL+ environment
provides built-in support. For t he code labeled as (3), service
call statements are generated; for the code labeled as (4),
plugin call statements are produced, as the logic is already
encapsulated in executable plugin packages. Finally, the code
labeled as (5) results in the corresponding return statements.
For the order-API code shown in Fig. 1, the LLM-agent can
generate the following GraphQL+ document.
Leveraging the collaborative efforts of these four agents
(Labeling, Modularizing, Packaging, Generating), they gener-
ate a GraphQL+ document from the code of order-API service
and package the code labeled as (4) into an executable plugin
ﬁle. To ensure the correctness of the generated GraphQL+
document, two additional agents a re designed as follows.
Functionality Checking : This agent evaluates the equiva-
lence between the original code and the generated GraphQL+
document. To avoid model bias and self-checking issues, we
employ Claude 4.5 Sonnet for generation and Gemini 2.5 Pro
for functionality checking. The checking model has no prior
knowledge of the generation process and evaluates only based
on the GraphQL+ syntax, enhancing the reliability of the check.
This task uses the following task prompt.
Syntax Checking : Leveraging a syntax parser, this agent
conducts a structured analysis of the generated GraphQL+
document, constructing an Abstract Syntax Tree (AST) and
performing a syntax check. This process involves checking
compliance with syntax rules, ensuring variable reference
consistency, and evaluating type compatibility. The agent
detects errors such as mismatched parentheses, undeﬁned
variables and incompatible types.
In summary , the LLM-based agents form a pipeline,
enabling the automated step-by-step generation of GraphQL+
models from microservice code. We adopt an iterative workﬂow
to achieve error detection and recovery. After the Generating
agent produces a GraphQL+ model, theFunctionality Checking
agent evaluates the functional consistency between the
generated model and the code. If the check fails, the feedback
is submitted to the Labeling agent to regenerate the model. If
the check passes, a PEG parser performs a syntax check. If
the check fails, the syntax error information is fed back to the
Generating agent until the syntax check passes.
C. GraphQL+ Engine and Database Gateway
Using the LLM-based multi- agent system, the code of each
microservice involved in data transmission is abstracted into
a GraphQL+ document and corresponding executable plugins.
These are submitted to a dedicated engine for uniﬁed computa-
tion. As shown in Fig. 2, the GraphQL+ engine comprises four
modules: Composition, Plugin, Parser, and Executor, while the
database gateway provides a uniﬁed access layer for cross-
service data querying.
Composition: For each microservice involved in the
data transmission, we have a GraphQL+ document.
For example, in the go-zero-look project, the order-API service
is responsible for querying order information and obtaining
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nova Southeastern University. Downloaded on August 30,2026 at 07:04:34 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

[[page 8]]
W ANG et al.: IRUC: REDUCING INTER-MICROSERVICE DATA COMMUNICATION IN DATA-INTENSIVE SYSTEMS 1205
Fig. 4. GraphQL+ Composition.
third-party payment records by invoking the payment-RPC
service, thereby returning the order details. Fig. 4 illustrates
the respective GraphQL+ documents of the order-API and
payment-RPC services. In this scenario, order-API performs a
service call to payment-RPC, resulting in inter-service data
transmission.
We compose the GraphQL+ documents of individual
microservices into a composite document by identifying remote
call statements and replacing them with the corresponding
GraphQL+ documents of the invoked services. This transforms
inter-service communication into local execution. As shown in
Fig. 4, the statement call payment-RPC in the order-API service
is replaced with the GraphQL+ document of payment-RPC.
In order to avoid variable name collisions during the
composition, we categorize variables based on their scopes
into local variables, which are conﬁned to individual
microservices, and global variables, which are used for inter-
service communication. For example, when order-API invokes
payment-RPC, it ﬁrst assigns the local variable order@e2c17.Sn
to the global variable order-API.OrderSnReq.OrderSn.T h e
payment-RPC receives this global variable as an input and
assigns the execution result to the global variable payment-
RPC.OrderSnResp. And then, order-API assigns this result to the
local variable payResp@a7bf9 for further processing.
The process of Gr aphQL+ composition is detailed in Algo-
rithm 1. The algorithm begins by obtaining the GraphQL+
document of the entry service and then identifying remote call
statements within it (Lines 1–2). As long as such remote calls
remain (Line 3), the algorithm gets the GraphQL+ document
of the invoked service (Line 5) and checks for circular depen-
dencies (Lines 6–8). If a dependency is detected, the process
terminates with an error; otherwise, the remote call statement
is replaced by the GraphQL+ document of the invoked service
(Line 9). The revised document is reexamined to identify any
remote calls (Line 11). This iterative process continues until
Algorithm 1: GraphQL+ Composition
Input: QLs={QLi|si ∈ S}, where QLi denotes the
GraphQL+ document of the service si
Output: composite GraphQL+ document QL
1 QL← getEntry(QLs); //get the GraphQL+ document of
the entry service
2 CS ← identifyCallStmt(QL); //remote call statements
3 while CS ⁄=φ do
4 for ∀ cs∈CS do
5 nextQL← getNext(cs); //get the GraphQL+
document of the invoked service
6 if detectCircularDependency(nextQL) then
7 return CircularDependencyError;
8 end
9 replace(cs, nextQL); //replace the remote call
statement by the GraphQL+ document of
invoked service as illustrated in Fig. 4
10 end
11 CS ← identifyCallStmt(QL);
12 end
13 return QL;/ /the composite GraphQL+ document
no remote calls exist (Line 13). In other words, the composite
GraphQL+ document eliminates all remote calls, transforming
inter-service data transfer into local computation .
Plugin: We decouple the data processing code of
microservices from the database queries and network
transmission. Speciﬁcally, we modularize and encapsulate the
data processing code into the executable plugin packages that
are uniformly deployed to the same computing node. On this
node, the GraphQL+ engine performs uniﬁed data processing
through local invocation of the plugins. For example, as shown
in Fig. 1, the data processing code of the order-API (Lines 4-8)
is encapsulated into the plugi n package orderDetail.so, which
provides a procOrderHandle interface. Once deployed to the
engine, the plugin can be dynamically executed at runtime.
The plugin interfaces use JSON for data exchange, ensuring
language independence and interoperability. The interface deﬁ-
nitions include standardized input/output handling to guarantee
consistent data exchange. This module supports the plugin
registration and resource isolation. These capabilities facilitate
efﬁcient maintenance of both the plugin repository and runtime
state management, ensuring that the system remains stable dur-
ing upgrades. With resource isolation, the plugins can coexist
without interference, and the hot update capability allows for
seamless upgrades without service interruption.
Parser: After deploying the composite GraphQL+ docu-
ment, the parser initiates the syntax analysis process, transform-
ing the document into an Abstract Syntax Tree (AST).
Based on the GraphQL+ speciﬁcation, we adopt a scan-
nerless recursive-descent parser that performs syntax reduc-
tion and character-level matching directly on the input stream.
By unifying lexical and syntactic rules, the parser better han-
dles nested and context-sensitive constructs. Each syntactic
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nova Southeastern University. Downloaded on August 30,2026 at 07:04:34 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

[[page 9]]
1206 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SOFTW ARE ENGINEERING, VOL. 52, NO. 4, APRIL 2026
Fig. 5. Abstract syntax tree example.
unit (operation types, ﬁeld paths, v ariable ref erences, built-
ins) is instantiated as an AST node with recorded source loca-
tions (line/column) to support error localization. The resulting
hierarchical AST preserves grammatical constructs, semantic
boundaries, parent–child nesting, and sequential dependencies,
serving as the intermediate representation for execution-plan
generation and runtime scheduling.
For example, the AST of a composite GraphQL+ docu-
ment is shown in Fig. 5. The ﬁrst subtree corresponds to an
assignment statement, where order-API.OrderSnReq.OrderSn is a
global variable and order@e2c17.Sn is a local variable, with an
assignment relationship between the two. The second subtree
represents a data query statement. Through the syntax analysis,
the GraphQL+ document is transformed into an AST, which
provides support for the executor.
Executor: The AST nodes contain the semantic information
required to execute the operations. The executor traverses the
AST recursively, visiting each node step by step. For each node,
the executor generates the corresponding execution action and
executes the operation accordingly.
For example, through traversing the AST in Fig. 5,t h e
executor performs two actions as shown in Fig. 6.F i r s t ,t h e
executor assigns the local variable order@e2c17.Sn to the global
variable order-API.OrderSnReq.OrderSn, and executes a standard
GraphQL operation, taking the variable order-API.OrderSnReq.
OrderSn as input. The execution result is stored in the variable
payment@6aa82.
At runtime, the executor instantiates a context object to serve
as the carrier of runtime state. The context object contains the
variable pool (storing the variables), execution logs (recording
the execution process and debugging information), and an
exception collector (error detection), which enhances the
executor’s observability and f ault tolerance. The executor
executes actions in sequence, with the execution results
being written back to the var iable pool, t hus managing
the lifecycle of variables and enabling seamless execution
context.
Fig. 6. AST-Based execution actions.
Database Gateway : The gateway provides a uniﬁed
database access interface for the GraphQL+ engine. Each
database registers with the gateway by declaring its data model
and access rules. The gateway then creates adapters for each
database, enabling support for heterogeneous databases. It
manages connections, performs data schema conversions, and
enforces access control at the database level. For example,
Sequelize, a Node.js ORM (Object-Relational Mapping)
library, can be used for interacting with databases. There
is an example of a database model based on Sequelize
as below.
The above code deﬁnes a database model and conﬁgures the
connection details for a PostgreSQL database. It declares the
table Order, including a primary key id and a unique sn ﬁeld
representing the order number.
To enforce read-only control, a hook function is deﬁned.
Order.beforeUpdate((instance, options)⇒ {throw new Error(’only read’);})
The above code registers a hook function for the Order model.
This function is triggered before update operation is performed
on the Order table. If triggered, it throws a read error, thereby
preventing the update from occurring. It ensures that certain
data records cannot be modiﬁed at runtime, which strengthens
the access control logic at the database level. The hook function
implements a uniﬁed data access security policy. Moreover,
the database gateway supports horizontal scaling behind a load
balancer, enabling multiple gateway instances to be deployed
as the number of microservice databases grows. Additionally,
the gateway now manages security mechanisms across mul-
tiple datasets, which were previously handled by individual
microservices. While this design may introduce potential risks
related to cross-database access, it also creates opportunities
for further security enhancement, such as authentication and
authorization middleware or policy enforcement modules, by
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nova Southeastern University. Downloaded on August 30,2026 at 07:04:34 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

[[page 10]]
W ANG et al.: IRUC: REDUCING INTER-MICROSERVICE DATA COMMUNICATION IN DATA-INTENSIVE SYSTEMS 1207
TABLE I
MICROSERVICE PROJECTS
Scale Project Language RPC # of services URL
small
staffjoy Java RESTful API/JSON 2 https://github.com/spring2go/staffjoy
piggymetrics Java RESTful API/JSON 3 https://github.com/sqshq/piggymetrics
novel-cloud Java RESTful API/JSON 3 https://github.com/201206030/novel-cloud/
guli Java RESTfu API/JSON 3 https://github.com/NiceSeason/gulimall-learning
go-zero-look Golang gRPC/Protobuf 3 https://github.com/Mikaelemmmm/go-zero-looklook
medium
mall-swarm Java RESTful API/JSON 4 https://github.com/macrozheng/mall-swarm
go-zero-mall Golang gRPC/Protobuf 4 https://github.com/nivin-studio/go-zero-mall
train-ticket Java RESTful API/JSON 6 https://github.com/FudanSELab/train-ticket
large ecommerce Java RESTful API/JSON 12 https://github.com/hoangtien2k3/ecommerce-microservices
enabling consistent and uniﬁed management of database access
rules.
In summary , the GraphQL+ engine comprises four mod-
ules: Composition, Parser, Executor, and Plugin. The Composi-
tion module merges individual microservice GraphQL+ models
into a composite model. The Parser converts that composite
model into an AST. The Executor generates the execution plan
based on the AST, coordinating calls to Plugins, which encapsu-
late concrete data-processing and transformation logic. More-
over, microservices usually maintain their own databases inde-
pendently. The database gateway provides a uniﬁed interface
for accessing these distributed databases. These modules form a
coherent pipeline that transforms inter-service data processing
and transmission into uniﬁed computation.
IV . EVALUATION
To evaluate our approach, we study nine microservice
projects: staffjoy, piggymetrics, novel-cloud, guli, go-zero-
look, go-zero-mall, mall-swarm, train-ticket, and ecommerce,
which are popular open-source projects on GitHub. These
projects span Java and Golang, the two prevalent languages
in GitHub’s microservice repositories (29.6% and 10.9%,
respectively)1. Each project has received at least 300 stars
(with an average of about 4.6k), reﬂecting good community
adoption, and features data-intensive workloads, making them
representative for evaluation in real-world scenarios. This
enables our experimental subjects to reﬂect the architectural
diversity of microservice systems in practical applications.
The detailed information about these projects is provided in
Table I. We categorize these projects by the number of services
to represent system scale:small (2-3 services), medium (4-6 ser-
vices), andlarge (12 services). An increase in the number of ser-
vices participating in data transmission typically reﬂects greater
service dependency complexity, higher inter-service communi-
cation overhead, and more signiﬁcant performance challenges.
Among these projects, seven are written in Java, and two are
written in Golang. Micr oservice pr ojects written in Java typ-
ically rely on RESTful APIs, but their performance is insuf-
ﬁcient under high load due to their lack of optimization for
high concurrency. Additionally, since data is transmitted in the
1https://github.com/topics/microservices
JSON format, the serialization and deserialization overhead can
further impact performance. In contrast, microservice projects
written in Golang often use gRPC for communication. gRPC
is an efﬁcient, HTTP/2-based remote procedure call protocol
that leverages Protocol Buffers (Protobuf) for data serialization.
Protobuf is more compact and efﬁcient than JSON, reducing
bandwidth usage. In the experiments, for the Golang projects all
approaches use gRPC with Protobuf for inter-service commu-
nication and data serialization, whereas for the Java projects all
approaches use RESTful HTTP with JSON. This setup ensures
a fair comparison by keeping the RPC and serialization stack
consistent within each project.
We pose the following research questions:
• RQ1: How effective is the LLM-based multi-agent sys-
tem for GraphQL+ document generation ? In the multi-
agent system, an iterative agent workﬂow is employed to
generate GraphQL+ documents. This question investi-
gates the practical feasibility of the iRUC approach, with
a particular focus on the number of iterations required
to pass functionality and syntax checks.
• RQ2: How does the iRUC approach perform in terms
of throughput and latency compared to the exist-
ing work on inter-service data communication opti-
mization? This question focuses on quantifying the per-
formance beneﬁts of the iRUC approach in terms of
throughput and latency, benchmarking it against exist-
ing optimization approaches for inter-service data com-
munication. The results aim to reveal whether iRUC
offers a high-performance solution for data-intensive
microservice systems.
• RQ3: How effective is the iRUC approach in reduc-
ing the inter-service data communication ? This ques-
tion focuses on the volume of data transferred within
microservice systems. A substantial reduction in data
transfer can indicate that iRUC effectively mitigates
inter-service communication overhead.
A. Automatic GraphQL+ Generation
Claude 4.5 Sonnet 2 is a widely used large language model
(LLM), known for its coding capabilities. Gemini 2.5 Pro 3
2https://www.anthropic.com/claude/sonnet
3https://gemini.google.com/app
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nova Southeastern University. Downloaded on August 30,2026 at 07:04:34 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

[[page 11]]
1208 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SOFTW ARE ENGINEERING, VOL. 52, NO. 4, APRIL 2026
TABLE II
LLM AGENTS:T IME CONSUMPTION (SECOND)
Scale Project L M P G C Total
small
staffjoy 20.1 25.1 34.4 42.6 34.8 157
piggymetrics 36.0 43.8 84.7 55.8 33.8 254.1
novel-cloud 25.5 60.0 55.7 35.1 30.7 207
guli 36.1 41.5 60.2 54.8 24.0 216.6
go-zero-look 39.5 32.2 44.1 43.9 41.4 201.1
medium
mall-swarm 32.6 45.9 44.6 48.9 33.9 205.9
go-zero-mall 41.4 116.4 56.4 118.8 32.7 365.7
train-ticket 27.0 33.3 76.6 47.7 26.7 211.3
large ecommerce 37.9 45.4 86.3 89.3 31.7 290.6
Abbreviations for LLM Agents in Fig. 2: L = Labeling, M = Modularizing,
P = Packaging, G = Generating, C = Functionality Checking.
is a popular LLM delivering com petitive performance across
diverse reasoning tasks. PEG.js4 is a parser generator grounded
in Parsing Expression Grammar (PEG), capable of generating
the parser that can validate and analyze GraphQL+ syntax.
Based on these models, we employ the Claude 4.5 Sonnet
API to generate GraphQL+ documents from microservice code
through an agent workﬂow consisting of labeling, modulariz-
ing, packaging and generating. Moreover, we use the Gemini
2.5 Pro for functionality check and PEG.js for syntax check.
Functionality check ensures t hat GraphQL+ documents are
equivalent to the original code, resetting the workﬂow on fail-
ure. Similarly, syntax check ensures adherence to deﬁned rules,
returning to the model regeneration if it fails.
Table II reports the per-round time consumption of LLM
agents across projects; the average per-round total time ranges
from 157s to 365.7s. Across agents, modularizing (M), pack-
aging (P) and generating (G) dominate the time consumption
and show large cross-project va riability (approximately 25.1 s
to 118.8 s), indicating that these three agents are the primary
contributors to the observed differences in total time between
projects. By contrast, labelin g (L) and functionality checking
(C) are comparatively small and stable, with values roughly in
the 20.1s to 41.4s range. Note that after functionality checking,
syntax checking is performed using a PEG parser; its average
execution time is below 1ms and is negligible compared with
that of the LLM-based agents.
Table III presents the number of errors identiﬁed during the
agent workﬂow for the GraphQL+ document generation. For the
nine microser vice projects evaluated, the functionality check
is completed within at most 4 iterations, and the syntax check
within at most 3 iterations. The ecommerce project has the
largest number of microservices among all projects. It requires
a total of 7 iterations to pass both the functionality and syntax
checks (4 iterations for functionalityand 3 iterations for syntax).
The staffjoy project has the fewest number of microservices, and
successfully passes all checks within just 3 iterations. Through-
out the iterative workﬂow, both the functionality-checking and
syntax-checking agents effectively identify issues, allowing the
4https://github.com/pegjs/pegjs
TABLE III
FUNCTIONALITY AND SYNTAX CHECKING
Scale Project Functionality Errors Syntax Errors
I1 I2 I3 I4 I1 I2 I3
small
staffjoy 0 / / / 1 0 /
piggymetrics 1 0 / / 2 0 /
novel-cloud 3 0 / / 2 0 /
guli 4 0 / / 9 1 0
go-zero-look 0 / / / 3 0 /
medium
mall-swarm 2 0 / / 6 0 /
go-zero-mall 0 / / / 5 4 0
train-ticket 8 2 0 / 4 0 /
large ecommerce 11 2 1 0 6 1 0
I1, I2, and so on denote the number of errors found in each iteration.
Fig. 7. Number of agent workﬂow iterations.
number of errors to progressively converge, resulting in correct
and executable documents.
Fig. 7 depicts the number of iterations for the agent workﬂow.
On average, functionality checking completes in 2 iterations,
while syntax checking requires 2.3 iterations. The maximum
observed counts are 4 iterations for functionality checking and
3 iterations for syntax checking.
Moreover, we design 606 test cases for these microservice
projects, including normal scenarios (98 cases), boundary con-
ditions (294 cases), and exceptional situations (214 cases), to
check whether the generated GraphQL+ documents are func-
tionally consistent with the original microservice code. For
these microservice projects, the generated GraphQL+ docu-
ments pass all test cases. An example set of the test cases is
provided in Appendix B of the supplementary materials.
Answer to RQ1 : For these nine microservice projects,
the GraphQL+ documents generated by the LLM-based multi-
agent system pass all the tests. The results demonstrate that the
agent system has the ability to eff ectively generate the correct
and executable GraphQL+ documents from microservice code.
B. Performance Evaluation
We develop a GraphQL+ engine that utilizes PEG.js for syn-
tax parsing and Apollo Server for executing standard GraphQL
operations. Using PEG.js, we generate a parser capable of trans-
lating GraphQL+ documents into abstract syntax trees (ASTs).
Apollo Server5, a speciﬁcation-compliant GraphQL server, is
5https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nova Southeastern University. Downloaded on August 30,2026 at 07:04:34 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

[[page 12]]
W ANG et al.: IRUC: REDUCING INTER-MICROSERVICE DATA COMMUNICATION IN DATA-INTENSIVE SYSTEMS 1209
responsible for handling data queries and orchestrating inter-
actions with databases. In add ition, we develop the database
gateway based on Apollo Gateway6, serving as the uniﬁed entry
point for querying databases.
To deploy these microservice p rojects, we utilize Huawei
Elastic Cloud Servers (ECS) 7, known for their high
performance, reliability, and scalability. The deployment
involves three types of nodes: database nodes, service nodes,
and an engine node for executing GraphQL+ documents. For
the service nodes, we select the x1e.4u.8g instances (4vCPUs
and 8GB memory), which are distributed across different
geographic locations with a network bandwidth of 300Mbps.
Following the loosely coupled principle in microservice
deployment, the microservices are deployed on different
nodes, each with its own independent database, e.g., MySQL
and PostgreSQL. To fully leverage database performance,
we choose the ac8.2xlarge.2 instances (8vCPUs and 16GB
memory) as the database nodes to handle high-performance
requirements under heavy loads. The database nodes are hosted
in a Huawei private cloud data center. Additionally, we select
the ac8.2xlarge.2 instance (8vCPUs and 16GB memory) for
the engine node, which is also deployed within the data center
and connected to the database nodes via high-bandwidth links
(up to 20Gbps).
Compared Approaches. The compared approaches are:
• MDS (Microservice-based Data-intensive System): As
a baseline approach, discussed in [4], the microservices
directly interact with the database to fetch data, then pass
the data to downstream services;
• DD (Dynamic Deployment) [13]: The microservices are
deployed within the same data center to reduce their net-
work distance. In our experiments, all services are relo-
cated to the engine node within the data center;
• SC (Serverless Computing) [23]: The microservices run as
lightweight functions on a serverless platform; It leverages
data locality and network metric s to dynamically migrate
services to the same host or nearby nodes, reducing inter-
service communication overhead; We deploy the microser-
vice projects on Alibaba Function Compute 8, a leading
serverless computing platform in China;
• ER (Excessive data transfer Removal)[17]: This approach
inspects the excessive data not utilized within microser-
vices nor transmitted onward, and eliminates these data
from network transmission;
• iRUC (inter-service data communication Reduction
via Uniﬁed Computation): Our approach signiﬁcantly
enhances system performance through uniﬁed
computation.
Performance Metrics . Apache JMeter is a performance
testing framework and has been widely used as a testing tool for
Web applications. We use JMeter to simulate request loads and
apply the following metrics, which are critical for data-intensive
systems, to analyze the performance.
6https://www.apollographql.com/docs/federation/v1/gateway
7Huawei Cloud, https://www.huaweicloud.com/intl/en-us/product/ecs.html
8https://www.alibabacloud.com/en/product/function-compute
• Throughput represents the system’s capacity to handle
requests, quantiﬁed in responses per second ( rps), reﬂect-
ing the rate at which the system can respond to requests.
• Latency denotes the average time to complete a request.
For iRUC, it comprises the service time (parsing and
executing the GraphQL+ model, plugin processing, and
database gateway operations) and the data transfer time
(between the engine and database). For the baseline
approaches, the latency includes the service time (service
execution and database access) and the data transfer time
(between microservices).
We evaluate the impact of increasing data size per request,
ranging from 0.5 MB to 6 MB. For each microservice project,
we design multiple categories o f workloads that cover normal
scenarios, boundary conditions, and excepti onal situations. In
the experiments, 95% of the requests are randomly sampled
from normal cases, while the remaining 5% are drawn from
exceptional cases that simu late anomalous conditions. Each
experiment maintains a constant intensity of 250 requests per
second for a duration of 120 seconds per run. Fig.8(a) shows the
experimental results for the small-scale microservice projects.
For the MDS approach, throughput drops sharply from 74.1rps
to 6.2 rps and latency rises from 0.459 s to 7.194 s, with data
transfer time dominating 78% of the total latency. The ER
approach, which eliminates unnecessary data transmissions,
reduces the communication overhead, yet throughput still falls
to 6.6 rps and latency rises to 6.185 s. The DD approach co-
locates microservices on the same node, eliminating the net-
work distance: at 0.5 MB, throughput reaches 178.8 rps and
latency is 0.075s, and even at 6MB, throughput remains 39.3rps
with 1.073s latency. The SC approach underperforms DD for
small volumes but matches DD at 3.5 MB, as it dynamically
migrates microservices to the same or adjacent nodes. The
iRUC approach, using the GraphQL+ engine to handle the
data processing, achieves the most stable performance, with
throughput from 182.7rps to 80.1rps and latency from 0.068s to
0.416s. The breakdown analysis indicates the data transfer time
is the dominant factor in latency, which accounts for 78.0%,
76.9% and 60.6% of the total latency in the MDS, ER and
DD approaches, respectively. The improvement of the iRUC
approach is due to that the data transfer time is only 1.95%,
4.38%, and 37.5% of those in the MDS, ER and DD approaches,
respectively.
Fig. 8(b) and 8(c) show the experimental results for the
medium-scale and large-scale microservice projects, respec-
tively. We observe the results similar to those for the small-
scale projects: the iRUC approach outperforms the MDS, ER,
DD, and SC approaches across all experiments. We also observe
that performance for all approaches degrades as system scale
increases. As the scale increases from small to large, on average,
iRUC’s throughput decreases from 130.2rps to 82.1rps, and its
latency only increases from 0.202s to 0.539s. The performance
of MDS, ER, DD, and SC also declines signiﬁcantly; for MDS,
throughput falls to 12.5 rps and latency rises to 4.662 s. These
results indicate that iRUC exhibits better scalability.
Table IV shows the performance improvements of the iRUC
approach compared to the MDS, ER, DD and SC approaches.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nova Southeastern University. Downloaded on August 30,2026 at 07:04:34 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

[[page 13]]
1210 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SOFTW ARE ENGINEERING, VOL. 52, NO. 4, APRIL 2026
Fig. 8. Impact of data size per request (from 0.5 MB to 6MB).
TABLE IV
PERFORMANCE IMPROVEMENT
Project Throughput (responses per second) Lantecy (second)
MDS ER DD SC iRUC iRUC
MDS
iRUC
ER
iRUC
DD
iRUC
SC MDS ER DD SC iRUC iRUC
MDS
iRUC
ER
iRUC
DD
iRUC
SC
staffjoy 21.5 30.4 112.2 92.3 149.3 6.94× 4.91× 1.24× 1.62× 3.507 2.376 0.27 0.369 0.182 4.1% 6.1% 53.4% 39.2%
piggymetrics 18.5 21.6 91.6 76.0 128.7 6.95× 5.95× 1.4× 1.69× 4.074 3.102 0.487 0.505 0.212 5.2% 6.8% 43.5% 42.0%
novel-cloud 18.9 24.4 92.0 76.5 134.0 7.09× 5.49× 1.46× 1.75× 3.893 3.015 0.471 0.503 0.187 4.8% 6.2% 39.6% 37.1%
guli 18.7 18.7 87.4 74.5 128.0 6.83× 6.83× 1.46× 1.72× 3.894 3.894 0.526 0.517 0.209 5.4% 5.4% 39.8% 40.5%
go-zero-look 19.3 27.4 93.6 80.6 138.2 7.17× 5.04× 1.48× 1.71× 3.879 2.641 0.428 0.46 0.173 4.5% 6.6% 40.5% 37.6%
mall-swarm 17.6 23.7 86.7 64.1 132 7.51× 5.56× 1.52× 2.06× 4.0 2.746 0.55 0.66 0.194 4.8% 7.1% 35.2% 29.4%
go-zero-mall 19.0 29.6 71.9 69.5 130.7 6.86× 4.42× 1.82× 1.88× 3.967 2.286 0.685 0.572 0.198 5.0% 8.7% 40.0% 34.6%
train-ticket 15.4 17.9 70.1 49.2 115.3 7.51× 6.46× 1.65× 2.34× 4.277 3.524 0.774 0.942 0.27 6.3% 7.7% 34.6% 28.9%
ecommerce 12.5 15.1 50.4 40.3 82.1 6.58× 5.43× 1.63× 2.04× 4.662 3.559 1.191 1.293 0.539 11.6% 15.1% 45.2% 41.7%
Average 17.9 23.2 84.0 69.2 126.5 7.05× 5.57× 1.52× 1.87× 4.017 3.016 0.598 0.647 0.24 5.7% 7.7% 40.7% 37.4%
For these microservice projects, the throughput of the iRUC
approach is at least 6 × that of the MDS approach, 4 × that of
the ER approach, 1.2× that of the DD approach and 1.6× that
of the SC approach. On average, iRUC achieves 7.05×,5 . 5 7×,
1.52×, and 1.87× higher throughput compared with MDS, ER,
DD, and SC, respectively. In terms of latency, iRUC reduces
latency to 5.7%, 7.7%, 40.7%, and 37.4% of the latency for
MDS, ER, DD, and SC, respectively.
We evaluate the impact of workload intensity on system
performance using an ecommerce project comprising 12
microservices, with an average data size of 3 MB per request.
The workload intensity increases from 1 request/min, 1
request/s to 350 requests/s. Each run lasts 120 seconds, except
for the 1 request/min setting, for which the duration is extended
to 10 minutes. As shown in Fig. 9, MDS and ER become
saturated at a workload intensity of 150 requests/s, achieving
a peak throughput of only about 15 rps. As the load increases
further, their average latency rises sharply to approximately 5s,
indicating that both approaches are constrained by inter-service
data-transfer bottlenecks. DD and SC perform better than
MDS and ER, achieving a higher throughput of around 40 rps;
however, under high concurrency, their average latency still
increases to about 1.5 s, suggesting that although they shorten
network transmission paths, they fail to eliminate the overhead
of inter-service communication. In contrast, iRUC consistently
outperforms all other approaches: its throughput continues to
increase with the workload, reaching a peak of 76.4 rps, while
maintaining a low average latency (below 0.7s), demonstrating
superior scalability and re silience to performance
saturation. These results conﬁrm that iRUC achieves
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nova Southeastern University. Downloaded on August 30,2026 at 07:04:34 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

[[page 14]]
W ANG et al.: IRUC: REDUCING INTER-MICROSERVICE DATA COMMUNICATION IN DATA-INTENSIVE SYSTEMS 1211
Fig. 9. Impact of workload intensity (fro m 1 req/min, 1 req/s to 350 req/s).
Fig. 10. Resource consumption of GraphQL+ engine.
higher throughput and more stable latency in data-intensive
environments.
iRUC adopts a GraphQL+ engine to perform cross-service
data processing centrally, eliminating the overhead caused by
inter-service data communication, while database access over
the network remains necessary. As shown in Fig. 10,f o ra
GraphQL+ engine, CPU utilizatio n increases near ly linearly
with load and saturates at about 95% around 250 requests/s,
while memory utilization remains low (about 30%) at medium
to high loads. The network I/O between the engine and the
databases also increases with load and peaks at 249.2MB/s; once
CPU saturation is reached, throughput no longer increases and
network I/O stabilizes at 220–250 MB/s. Since the engine can
be deployed close to the databases and connected via high-
bandwidth links (up to 20 Gbps in the experiments), network
I/O does not become the bottl eneck. Under this conﬁguration,
higher throughput can be achieved by horizontally scaling the
GraphQL+ engine behind a load balancer.
Answer to RQ2 : The iRUC approach signiﬁcantly outper-
forms the MDS, ER, DD and SC approaches in both throughput
and latency across all experiments. The experimental results
demonstrate that iRUC provides a high-performance solution
for data-intensive microservice systems.
Table V presents the data transfer per request, representing
the end-to-end volume including both database network I/O
and inter-service data communication, under different system
scales, as well as the reduction ratios of iRUC compared to
the baseline approaches. The DD approach deploys microser-
vices on the same node to eliminate network distance, but data
transfer between mi croservices s till occurs. The data trans-
fer volume of DD remains approximately the same as that
of MDS. Note that the data-transfer volume per request for
SC is not measured due to the deployment on the Alibaba
Function Compute, where data transfer statistics are not acces-
sible. Since SC (like DD) shortens network distance rather
TABLE V
DATA TRANSFER REDUCTION
Approach
Data Transfer per
Request (MB)
Reduction Ratio
(1 − iRUC/baseline)
small medium large small medium large
MDS 12.58 18.8 32.63 74.3% 82.7% 89.2%
ER 10.45 14.1 25.02 69.0% 77.0% 85.9%
DD 12.25 18.9 32.58 73.6% 82.8% 89.2%
iRUC 3.23 3.25 3.53 / / /
than reducing data volume, and they have comparable through-
put and latency, SC’s data-transfer volume is similar to that
of MDS and DD. The ER approach eliminates unnecessary
data exchanges between microservices, leading to a lower data
transfer volume compared with both MDS and DD. The iRUC
approach consistently maintains the average data transfer per
request within the range of 3.23-3.53MB, which is signiﬁcantly
lower than that of the baseline approaches MDS, ER, and DD.
Taking MDS as an example, iRUC reduces the data transfer
by approximately 9.35MB, 15.55MB, and 29.1MB under small,
medium, and large scales, corresponding to reduction ratios of
74.3%, 82.7%, and 89.2%, respectively. Overall, as the system
scale increases, the data transfer of iRUC exhibits only a slight
growth, demonstrating its stability in transfer optimization.
Answer to RQ3 : The iRUC approach signiﬁcantly reduces
the inter-service data communication through uniﬁed compu-
tation. Experimental results demonstrate its effectiveness in
mitigating inter-service communication overhead, highlighting
its suitability for data-intensive microservice systems.
V. RELATED WORK
A. Inter-Microservice Data Communication
Inter-microservice data communication often incurs signiﬁ-
cant runtime overhead [5], [6], resulting in low throughput and
high bandwidth consumption in data-intensive microservice
systems [7], [8]. Existing research has explored three main
optimization strategies.
The ﬁrst strategy is the des ign-phase decompos ition strat-
egy to minimize inter-service communication. It decomposes
monolithic systems into microservice candidates using metrics
such as coupling, cohesion, and network cost[10]. For instance,
Li et al. [9] model the monolithic system as a graph and treat
the problem as a clustering problem on such a graph. How-
ever, determining the optimal microservices granularity remains
challenging [15], as runtime call graphs can be highly dynamic
and heavy-tailed [24].
The second strategy is the deployment-phase strategy which
improves performance by reducing the distance between ser-
vices, data, and end users [14], [25].L ve ta l . [13] apply deep
Q-learning to optimize service placement at the edge, while
data replication techniques cache data to reduce latency and
bandwidth use[26]. Furthermore, serverless computing[27] has
emerged as a popular dynamic deployment strategy that enables
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nova Southeastern University. Downloaded on August 30,2026 at 07:04:34 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

[[page 15]]
1212 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SOFTW ARE ENGINEERING, VOL. 52, NO. 4, APRIL 2026
developers to build, deploy, and run applications in the cloud
without the need to allocate or manage virtualized servers and
resources, or handle other operational concerns [23]. In other
words, it can dynamically ofﬂoad and migrate microservices
at runtime by trading off processing time and communication
overhead to achieve better overall performance. Yet, in practice,
this strategy can result in deploying numerous interdependent
services on shared servers, compromising scalability and loose
coupling [15].
The third strategy is the dynamic resource optimization
which enhances performance by allocating computational or
network resources based on predictive models [11], [12].F o r
example, Sinan [12] applies scalable machine learning models
to allocate resources and maintain latency targets.
Nevertheless, these strategies often assume that all inter-
service communications are necessary, an assumption chal-
lenged by tools such as MicroProf [17], which found that
redundant data transfers account for a signiﬁcant portion of the
communication overhead.
Therefore, taking a step further, our study aims to avoid
inter-service data communications that do not require
network transmission. We introduce a uniﬁed computational
approach that abstracts inter-service data processing
and transmission into declarative GraphQL+ documents,
minimizing inter-service data exchanges. Notably, our approach
is complementary to existing strategies, and combining it
with existing strategies would further improve the overall
performance.
B. Leveraging LLMs for Software Development
Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown strong potential
across the software development lifecycle, including require-
ments engineering, design, coding, quality assurance, mainte-
nance, and management [20], [21]. In requirements engineer-
ing, Ezzini et al. [28] demonstrated how ChatGPT improves
requirement clarity. In coding, tools such as Codex, CodeGen,
InCoder, Copilot, and CodeGeeX [20] assist with generation,
completion, summarization, and comprehension. LLMs also
enhance software qua lity through vulnerability detection [29],
test automation [30], and program repair for software mainte-
nance [31].
Beyond individual tasks, recent research enhances LLM
capabilities by integrating decisi on-making and interactive
problem-solving functions, transforming them into LLM-
based agents [20], [21] to enhance software development.
Frameworks such as AlpacaFarm [32], SWE-Agent [33],
and AutoCodeRover [34] show that agent-based LLM
systems can coordinate complex engineering workﬂows.
Furthermore, multi-agent sy stems such as ChatDev [19]
and Self-Collaboration [35] simulate team-based software
development following waterfall models [36], while MetaGPT
[37] extends this to agile paradigms through standardized
operating procedures.
Moving towards domain-speciﬁc applications, some studies
have customized LLMs for tasks in microservice-based soft-
ware systems [38]. Huang et al. [39] used LLMs to extract
API entities and relations from unstructured data, and Sarda
et al. [40] employed them for auto-remediation by generat-
ing playbooks to improve reliability. However, microservice
refactoring, a continuous “code-and-ﬁx” process essential for
practice, remains underexplored [38].
Hence, in this study, we develop an LLM-based multi-agent
system for microservice refactoring that automatically extracts
and reconstructs existing systems to reduce inter-service data
communication overhead. To our knowledge, this is the ﬁrst
such approach, and experiments on real-world microservice
projects validate its effectiveness.
VI. D ISCUSSION
A. Threats to Validity
1) Internal Validity: The main internal validity threat lies in
the selection of microservice systems used in our experiments.
To mitigate this, we adopted pr edeﬁned criteria to select nine
widely recognized open-source projects from GitHub rather
than developing prototypes. The selection followed three prin-
ciples: (1) language prevalence: each project is implemented
in Java or Go, the most common languages under GitHub’s
“microservices” topic; (2) community adoption: each project
has at least 300 stars, with an average of about 4.6k stars,
reﬂecting broad interest and real-world usage; and (3) data-
intensive workload: each involves substantial data processing
and transmission, aligning with our study’s focus. We acknowl-
edge that relaxing t hese criteria to incl ude additional projects
could further vali date the generalizab ility of our ﬁndings. A
second potential threat concerns the choice of hyperparameters
for the Claude 4.5 Sonnet and Gemini 2.5 Pro APIs. To ensure
reproducibility and reﬂect typical usage scenarios, we used the
default conﬁgurations rather than tuning parameters for speciﬁc
optimizations.
2) External Validity: The external validity concerns the
generalization of our ﬁndings across different contexts. The
primary threat arises from the potential variability in responses
from the Claude 4.5 Sonnet and Gemini 2.5 Pro APIs between
runs. To mitigate this, we de veloped our approach iteratively
and designed a set of test cases to ensure consistency and
correctness between the generated models and the original
microservice code. Further studies using other LLMs and
investigating the potential impacts from different versions
of the generated code would be valuable. Another potential
threat stems from network in stability during deployment on
real-world environments, which could affect performance
measurement. To reduce this risk, we conducted evaluations
across nine microservice projects, and results consistently
showed improved throughput and reduced latency, conﬁrming
the robustness of our approach.
3) Construct Validity: The construct validity concerns
whether the measurements and operational deﬁnitions used
in our study accurately capture the intended concepts. In our
experiments, we measured th roughput, the system’s capability
to handle requests quantiﬁed in responses per second, and
latency, the average duration required to complete a request
from start to end, as indicators of system performance.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nova Southeastern University. Downloaded on August 30,2026 at 07:04:34 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

[[page 16]]
W ANG et al.: IRUC: REDUCING INTER-MICROSERVICE DATA COMMUNICATION IN DATA-INTENSIVE SYSTEMS 1213
Although these metri cs are commonly used and critical for
data-intensive systems, they may not fully represent the
performance of the whole system. To mitigate this risk, we
adopted standardized quantitative indicators and performed
repeated experiments to ensure consistency.
4) Conclusion Validity: The conclusion validity relates
to the extent to which the evidence supports the conclusions
drawn. Our experiments were conducted in runtime
environments wher e network conditions and resource
scheduling may introduce uncontrolled variance. To minimize
this effect, each experiment was executed multiple times under
controlled conditions across dif ferent projects, and average
values were reported. While speciﬁc architectural or workload
variations may yield different absolute results, the observed
trends consistently validate the advantage of our proposed
approach in improving throughput and reducing latency.
B. Implications for Future Researchers
With the growing adoption of microservice architectures in
data-intensive systems, efﬁcient inter-service communication
has become critical for maint aining system performance.
This study introduces GraphQL+, an executable declarative
language that extends GraphQL with service-invocation and
plugin-execution semantics, enabling uniﬁed cross-language
modeling of data processing and transmission. In addition, we
develop an LLM-based multi-agent system that automatically
parses existing microservice code to synthesize corresponding
GraphQL+ models, minimizing manual refactoring efforts.
Although this work effectively reduces inter-service data
communication overhead, it is designed to complement, rather
than replace, existing optimization strategies. Future research
may explore hybrid approaches that integrate GraphQL+
with current design-, deployment-, and resource-optimization
techniques to further enhance performance. Additionally,
although security is beyond the scope of this study, our
approach uniﬁes security management across multiple datasets
previously handled by individual microservices. Future work
may explore advanced mechanisms, such as authentication
and authorization middleware or policy enforcement modules,
to further enhance the system’s overall security.
Moreover, we validated our approach using open-source
microservice systems implemented in Java and Go. Extending
the LLM-based multi-agent framework to additional languages
such as Python and JavaScript (e.g., React-based systems)
could broaden its applicability. Fur thermore, as the current
system emphasizes correctness in GraphQL+ model generation
over refactoring efﬁciency, future studies may improve
performance through LLM ﬁne-tuning or by adopting advanced
coordination protocols to enhance agent collaboration and
communication efﬁciency.
C. Implications for Practices
This work offers several implications for service engineers
as well as software vendors. For engineers, the proposed
approach provides a systematic method to eliminate redundant
inter-service data transfers during runtime, thereby improving
throughput and latency without requiring architectural redesign
or additional resources. Particularly, our approach provides
ﬂexibility that beneﬁt s engineers both when they start fresh
(by directly designing with GraphQL+) and when they want to
migrate existing services (via the LLM-driven reconstruction).
For software vendors, our ﬁndings highlight the importance
of reducing unnecessary inter-service data communication
in existing data-intensive microservice systems to enhance
the system’s performance, which is somehow overlooked but
highly critical for data-intensive systems.
VII. C ONCLUSION
This paper proposes the iRUC approach, a uniﬁed
computation framework designed to address inter-service
data communication bottlenecks in microservice-based, data-
intensive systems. Speciﬁcally, we introduce GraphQL+,
an executable, declarative language for uniﬁed, cross-
language modeling of data processing and transmission across
microservices. To automate the construction of GraphQL+
models, we develop an LLM- based multi-agent system that
parses existing microservice code and consistently synthesizes
the corresponding GraphQL+ models. Furthermore, we
implement an engine for central execution of the generated
GraphQL+ models, thereby effectively eliminating data
transfers between microservices. Experiments on nine GitHub
microservice projects deployed in real world environments
demonstrate that iRUC signiﬁcantly reduces data transfers and
improves performance: On average, iRUC achieves 5.57× the
throughput of the excessive data-transfer removal approach
(ER) and reduces latency to 7.7% of that of ER; it achieves
1.52× the throughput of the dynamic deployment approach
(DD) and reduces latency to 40.7% of that of DD; and it
achieves 1.87× the throughput of the serverless computing
approach (SC) and reduces latency to 37.4% of that of SC.
REFERENCES
[1] C. P. Chen and C.-Y . Zhang, “Data- intensive applications, challenges,
techniques and technologies: A survey on big data,” Inf. Sci., vol. 275,
pp. 314–347, Aug. 2014.
[2] A. Davoudian and M. Liu, “Big data systems: A software engineering
perspective,” ACM Comput. Surveys (CSUR) , vol. 53, no. 5, pp. 1–39,
2020.
[3] S. Dittmer et al., “Navigating the development challenges in creating
complex data systems,” Nature Mach. Intell. , pp. 1–6, 2023.
[4] O. Aitlmoudden, M. Housni, N. Safeh, and A. Namir, “A microservices-
based framework for scalable data analysis in agriculture with IoT
integration,” Int. J. Interactive Mobile Technol. , vol. 17, no. 19, Oct.
2023.
[5] Y . Gan et al., “An open-source benc hmark suite for microservices and
their hardware-software implications for cloud & edge systems,” in
Proc. 24th Int. Conf. Archit. Support Program. Lang. Oper. Syst. , 2019,
pp. 3–18.
[6] N. Lazarev, N. Adit, S. Xiang, Z. Zhang, and C. Delimitrou, “Dagger:
Towards efﬁcient RPCS in cloud microservices with near-memory
reconﬁgurable NICs,” IEEE Comput. Archit. Lett. , vol. 19, no. 2,
pp. 134–138, Jul.–Dec. 2020.
[7] P. Ranganathan, “From microproce ssors to nanostores: Rethinking data-
centric systems,” Computer, vol. 44, no. 1, pp. 39–48, Jan. 2011.
[8] V .-N. Pham, M. D. H ossain, G.-W. Lee, and E.-N. Huh, “Efﬁcient
data delivery scheme for large-scale microservices in distributed cloud
environment,” Appl. Sci., vol. 13, no. 2, 2023, Art. no. 886.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nova Southeastern University. Downloaded on August 30,2026 at 07:04:34 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

[[page 17]]
1214 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SOFTW ARE ENGINEERING, VOL. 52, NO. 4, APRIL 2026
[9] J. Li, H. Xu, X. Xu, and Z. Wang, “A novel method for identifying
microservices by considering qu ality expectations and deployment con-
straints,” Int. J. Softw. Eng. Knowl. Eng. , vol. 32, no. 3, pp. 417–437,
2022.
[10] Y . Abgaz et al., “Decomposition o f monolith applications into microser-
vices architectures: A systematic review,” IEEE Trans. Softw. Eng.,v o l .
49, no. 8, pp. 4213–4242, Aug. 2023.
[11] B. Urgaonkar, P. Shenoy, A. Chandra, and P. Goyal, “Dynamic pro-
visioning of multi-tier internet applications,” in Proc. 2nd Int. Conf.
Autonomic Comput. (ICAC), Piscataway, NJ, USA: IEEE Press, 2005,
pp. 217–228.
[12] Y . Zhang, W. Hua, Z. Zhou, G. E. Suh, and C. Delimitrou, “Sinan: ML-
based and QoS-aware resource management for cloud microservices,” in
Proc. 26th ACM Int. Conf. Archit. Support Program. Lang. Oper. Syst. ,
2021, pp. 167–181.
[13] W. Lv et al., “Microservice depl oyment in edge computing based on
deep q learning,” IEEE Trans. Parallel Distrib. Syst. , vol. 33, no. 11,
pp. 2968–2978, Nov. 2022.
[14] R. P. Ishii and R. F. de Mello, “An adaptive and histo rical approach to
optimize data access in grid computing environments,” INFOCOMP J.
Comput. Sci., vol. 10, no. 2, pp. 26–43, 2011.
[15] M. Hamza, M. A. Akbar, K. Smolander, and A. A. Khan, “Practitioners’
perspective on microservices desi gn areas challenges: A socio-technical
grounded theory literature review,” in Proc. Annu. Symp. Comput. Sci.,
2023, pp. 1–10.
[16] P. Genfer and U. Zdun, “Avoiding excessive data exposure through
microservice APIs,” in Proc. Eur. Conf. Softw. Archit. ,N e wY o r k ,N Y ,
USA: Springer-Verlag, 2022, pp. 3–18.
[17] S. S. M. Tariq, L. Menard, P. Su, and P. Roy, “MicroProf: Code-level
attribution of unnecessary data tran sfer in microservice applications,”
ACM Trans. Archit. Code Optim. , vol. 20, no. 4, pp. 1–26, 2023.
[18] GraphQL Working Draft. Accessed: Feb. 25, 2026. [Online]. Available:
https://spec.graphql.org/draft/
[19] C. Qian et al., “ChatDev: Communicative agents for software develop-
ment,” in Proc. 62nd Annu. Meeting Assoc. Comput. Linguistics (Volume
1: Long Papers), 2024, pp. 15174–15186.
[20] J. He, C. Treude, and D. Lo, “LLM-based multi-agent systems for
software engineering: Literature re view, vision and the road ahead,”
ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., vol. 34, no. 5, pp. 1–30, May 2024.
[21] X. Hou et al., “Large language models for software engineering: A
systematic literature review,” ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol. ,v o l .
33, no. 8, pp. 1–79, 2024.
[22] Ford, B. “Parsing expression gr ammars: a recognition-based syntactic
foundation,” in Proc. ACM SIGPLAN-SIGACT Symp. Princ. Program.
Lang., 2004, pp. 111–122.
[23] G. R. Russo, V . Cardellini, and F. L. Presti, “A framework for ofﬂoading
and migration of serverless functi ons in the edge–cloud continuum,”
Pervasive Mob. Comput., vol. 100, May 2024, Art. no. 101915.
[24] S. Luo et al., “Characterizing microservice dependency and perfor-
mance: Alibaba tr ace analysis,” in Proc. ACM Symp. Cloud Comput. ,
2021, pp. 412–426.
[25] Y . Mao, C. You, J. Zhang, K. Huang, and K. B. Letaief, “A survey
on mobile edge computing: The communication perspective,” IEEE
Commun. Surveys Tuts., vol. 19, no. 4, pp. 2322–2358, 4th Quart. 2017.
[26] Y . Liu et al., “QoE-aware data caching optimization with budget in edge
computing,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Web Services (ICWS) , Piscataway,
NJ, USA: IEEE Pr ess, 2021, pp. 324–334.
[27] S. Kounev et al., “Serverless computing: What it is, and what it is not?”
Commun. ACM, vol. 66, no. 9, pp. 80–92, 2023.
[28] S. Ezzini, S. Abualhaija, C. Ar ora, and M. Sabetzadeh, “Automated
handling of anaphoric ambiguity in requirements: a multi-solution
study,” in Proc. 44th Int. Conf. Softw. Eng. , 2022, pp. 187–199.
[29] W. Tang, M. Tang, M. Ban, Z. Zhao, and M. Feng, “CSGVD: A deep
learning approach combining seque nce and graph embedding for source
code vulnerability detection,” J. Syst. Softw. , vol. 199, May 2023, Art.
no. 111623.
[30] I. Hayet, A. Scott, and M. d’Amo rim, “ChatAssert: LLM-based test
oracle generation with external tools assistance,” IEEE Trans. Softw.
Eng., vol. 51, no. 1, pp. 305–319, Jan. 2025.
[31] G. De Vito, S. Di Martino, F. Ferrucci, C. Gravino, and F. Palomba,
“LLM-based automation of COSMIC functional size measurement from
use cases,” IEEE Trans. Softw. Eng., vol. 51, no. 5, pp. 1500–1523, May
2025.
[32] Y . Dubois et al., “AlpacaFarm: A simulation framework for methods that
learn from human feedback,” in Proc. Adv. Neural Inf. Process. Syst. ,
2023, vol. 36, pp. 30039–30069.
[33] J. Yang et al., “Swe-agent: Agent -computer interfaces enable automated
software engineering,” in Proc. Adv. Neural Inf. Process. Syst. , 2024,
vol. 37, pp. 50528–50652.
[34] Y . Zhang, H. Ruan, Z. Fan, and A. Roychoudhury, “AutoCodeRover:
Autonomous program improvement,” in Proc. 33rd ACM SIGSOFT Int.
Symp. Softw. Testing Anal. , 2024, pp. 1592–1604.
[35] Y . Dong, X. Jiang, Z. Jin, and G. Li, “Self-collaboration code generation
via ChatGPT,” ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., vol. 33, no. 7, pp. 1–
38, 2024.
[36] W. W. Royce, “Managing the dev elopment of large software systems:
concepts and techniques,” in Proc. 9th Int. Conf. Softw. Eng. , 1987,
pp. 328–338.
[37] S. Hong et al., “MetaGPT: Meta programming for a multi-agent col-
laborative framework,” in Proc. 12th Int. Conf. Learn. Representations ,
2024, pp. 1–27.
[38] C. Zhong, S. Li, H. Zhang, H. Huang, L. Yang, and Y . Cai, “Refactoring
microservices to microservices in support of evolutionary design,” IEEE
Trans. Softw. Eng., vol. 51, no. 2, pp. 484–502, Feb. 2025.
[39] Q. Huang, Y . Sun, Z. Xing, M. Yu, X. Xu, and Q. Lu, “Api entity and
relation joint extraction from text via dynamic prompt-tuned language
model,” ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol. , vol. 33, no. 1, pp. 1–25,
2023.
[40] K. Sarda, Z. Namrud, M. Litoiu, L. Shwartz, and I. Watts, “Leveraging
large language models for the auto-re mediation of microservice appli-
cations: An experimental study,” in Proc. Companion 32nd ACM Int.
Conf. Found. Softw. Eng., 2024, pp. 358–369.
Puwei Wang received the Ph.D. degree in
computer science from the Institute of Computing
Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences. He is
currently an Associate Professor with the School
of Information, Renmin University of China. He
has published more than 30 papers in well-known
international journals and conferences, such as
TSC, TPDS, TKDE, ICSE, ICWS, and ICSOC.
His research interests in clude services computing
and blockchain. He received the ICWS 2023 Best
Paper Award and the DIKW 2021 Outstanding
Paper Award.
Ruiheng Liu received the master degree in com-
puter science from the School of Information, Ren-
min University of China, in 2025. His research inter-
ests include microservice optimization and LLM-
based multi-agent systems.
Keman Huang received the Ph.D. degree in control
science from Tsinghua University. He is currently an
Associate Professor with the School of Information,
Renmin University of China. He has published more
than 60 papers in well-known international journals
and conferences, such as IEEE T RANSACTIONS ON
SERVICES COMPUTING, IEEE T RANSACTIONS ON
SOFTWARE ENGINEERING,I E E ETRANSACTIONS ON
AUTOMATION SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING, IJIM,
MIT SMR, IEEE ICWS, ACM CSCW, ICSOC
and AAAI etc. His research interests include data
ecosystem and LLM-drive n multi-agent system.
Xiaoyong Du is currently a Professor with the
School of Information, Renmin University of China,
specializing in database system s and data engineer-
ing. He is also the Director of Key Laboratory
of Data Engineering and Knowledge Engineering.
He has published more than 200 papers in well-
known international journals and conferences, such
as SIGMOD, VLDB, TKDE, KDD, AAAI etc.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nova Southeastern University. Downloaded on August 30,2026 at 07:04:34 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.