[[page 1]]
Exploring Autonomous Agents: A Closer Look at
Why They Fail When Completing Tasks
Ruofan Lu†, Yichen Li†, Yintong Huo‡∗
†The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong. Email: {rflu, ycli21}@cse.cuhk.edu.hk
‡Singapore Management University, Singapore. Email: ythuo@smu.edu.sg
Abstract—Autonomous agent systems powered by Large Lan-
guage Models (LLMs) have demonstrated promising capabili-
ties in automating complex tasks. However, current evaluations
largely rely on success rates without systematically analyzing
the interactions, communication mechanisms, and failure causes
within these systems. To bridge this gap, we present a bench-
mark of 34 representative programmable tasks designed to
rigorously assess autonomous agents. Using this benchmark, we
evaluate three popular open-source agent frameworks combined
with two LLM backbones, observing a task completion rate
of approximately 50%. Through in-depth failure analysis, we
develop a three-tier taxonomy of failure causes aligned with
task phases, highlighting planning errors, task execution issues,
and incorrect response generation. Based on these insights, we
propose actionable improvements to enhance agent planning
and self-diagnosis capabilities. Our failure taxonomy, together
with mitigation advice, provides an empirical foundation for
developing more robust and effective autonomous agent systems
in the future.
Index Terms—LLM agents, autonomous agents, failure analy-
sis.
I. I NTRODUCTION
The advancement of LLMs has enabled a new trend in task
automation through autonomous agents [1]–[4]. These agents
are designed to work together to interpret human commands,
autonomously produce and execute code, and return the an-
swer directly to the user. This synergistic workflow is capable
of resolving more complicated problems, and provides an
“end-to-end” answer without user involvement in the technical
coding processes.
Current agent systems are implemented as a collaborative
team of specialized LLMs abstracted into three core compo-
nents (Figure 1): (1) Planner, who decomposes complex user
requests into a sequential plan of tasks, (2) Code generator,
which converts each sub-task into executable and functional
code with the use of various tools or plugins, and (3) Executor,
which runs the code and integrates with development envi-
ronments. The executor collects outputs and errors, forming
a feedback loop to the planner for refining or returning an
answer. Some studies refer to the combined code generation
and execution process as the code interpreter [5]–[8].
Despite the promising capabilities of agent systems, their
performance remains merely understood beyond a basic suc-
cess rate metric [9]. There is an absence of systematic analy-
sis in exploring the intricate communication among agents,
∗ Yintong Huo is the corresponding author.
Planner
 Code generator Executor
Generating response…
User Question
Answer
Sub-tasks
 Code with 
tool/plugin 
usage
Environment
Dependency etc.
Replanning…
Fig. 1: The basic framework of an autonomous agent system.
their information passing mechanism, and the root causes
of failures. For instance, whether a failure in web crawling
task stems from incorrect planning or code generation. To
advance these systems in the long run, it is essential to
identify the fundamental bottlenecks by conducting a thorough
investigation into failure origins.
To fill this gap, we built a benchmark containing 34 repre-
sentative programmable tasks to evaluate current autonomous
agents. Using this benchmark, we assessed three widely-
used open-source agent frameworks paired with two LLM
backbones. Our experiments show that approximately 50% of
tasks are successfully completed by current agent collabora-
tions, with failure causes including improper task planning,
generation of nonfunctional code, and inadequate refinement
strategies across iterations. Based on this analysis, we propose
a three-level taxonomy of failure causes aligned with different
task phases. Additionally, we offer several actionable recom-
mendations aimed at enhancing planning capabilities and self-
diagnosis mechanisms to advance autonomous agents.
We summarize the contribution of this paper as follows:
• Benchmark: We build a benchmark with programmable tasks
to evaluate the capabilities of current autonomous agents.
• Failure analysis : Our evaluation of three popular agent
frameworks reveals an approximately 50% task completion
rate, categorizing failures into a three-level taxonomy based
on task phases.
• Actionable advice: We provide suggestions to improve plan-
ning and self-diagnosis mechanisms, aimed at improving
future autonomous agent systems.
II. A UTONOMOUS AGENTS IN SOFTWARE ENGINEERING
Recent research has increasingly applied LLM-based agents
to software engineering from two directions [10]: developing
agents to handle specific SE tasks [11], [12] (e.g., debug-
ging), and improving agent frameworks by enhancing role
definitions and collaboration mechanisms [1], [13]. Within
3856
2025 40th IEEE/ACM International Conference on Automated Software Engineering (ASE)
2643-1572/25/$31.00 ©2025 IEEE
DOI 10.1109/ASE63991.2025.00330
2025 40th IEEE/ACM International Conference on Automated Software Engineering (ASE) | 979-8-3503-5733-2/25/$31.00 ©2025 IEEE | DOI: 10.1109/ASE63991.2025.00330
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nova Southeastern University. Downloaded on August 30,2026 at 07:05:39 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

[[page 2]]
TABLE I: A description of the evaluation of agent frameworks in terms of their design goals and collaborative strategies.
Framework Design Goals Collaboration Strategy
TaskWeaver Translating user requests into executable code for
task automation.
A stateful and linear workflow of plan generation, coding for each
step, and an interpreter executes it.
MetaGPT Generate projects simulating a software development
company.
Encoding standard operating procedures into prompt sequences, fol-
lowing an assembly line to pass information to each other to finish
complicated tasks.
AutoGen A flexible framework for agents to solve tasks via
conversation.
Adapted from flexible agent conversations, agents chat with each other,
forming a dynamic and interactive collaboration to complete tasks.
these directions, agent-based approaches have demonstrated
promising results across key SE domains measured by task
success rates, such as requirement engineering [14], [15], code
generation [16]–[18] and testing [19]–[21]. However, most
prior work treats agent systems as monolithic entities and lacks
in-depth analysis of their internal processes. In contrast, our
study emphasizes a detailed analysis from the perspective of
the agent framework itself, investigating the contributions and
interactions of individual agents, exposing current limitations,
and guiding the design of more effective, collaborative agent
systems in the future.
III. E XPERIMENTS
A. Benchmark construction
We selected three types of common coding tasks in daily
life for our benchmark, with their sources as follows:
• Web Crawling: We search for the keyword “Web Crawling”
on GitHub and Stack Overflow and construct tasks from the
returned repositories and posts.
• Data Analysis : We incorporate a number of tasks from
DABench [22], an end-to-end data analysis benchmark
that requires agents to interact with an executable code
environment to solve problems.
• File Operations : We curate tasks based on several Stack
Overflow posts focusing on fundamental file operations
using Python and Bash.
During task selection, we follow the criteria below to ensure
benchmark quality. First, tasks have to be executable, with
evaluation based on the outcomes of running the code rather
than the code alone, differentiating our approach from typical
code generation benchmarks. Second, tasks need to accom-
modate automated evaluation, leading us to exclude tasks like
front-end interface generation that are challenging to assess
programmatically. Finally, tasks are verified to be at least
partially solvable by an agent, enabling meaningful exploration
of design challenges; overly difficult or completely unsolvable
tasks were left out. We carefully construct the benchmark
consisting of 34 tasks, with human-verified ground-truth labels
for automatic evaluation.
Metrics. Following prior work [23], [24], we measure suc-
cess rate as the evaluation metric. A task is deemed successful
only if its output exactly matches the ground-truth answer.
B. Studied subjects
Since our research focuses on the agent frameworks rather
than the capabilities of the underlying LLMs, we select
Fig. 2: The success rate concerning max iteration numbers.
TABLE II: Benchmark success rate ( GPT-4o).
Agent Web Crawling Data Analysis File Operations All
TaskWeaver 16.67 66.67 75.00 50.00
MetaGPT 33.33 55.56 50.00 47.06
AutoGen 16.67 50.00 50.00 38.24
three popular open-source mainstream frameworks to examine
their agent interconnectivity and collaboration mechanisms:
TaskWeaver [1], MetaGPT [25], and AutoGen [2]. Table I
presents their brief descriptions with design goals and collab-
oration strategies. For the LLM backbones embedded within
each agent, we select GPT-4o [26] and GPT-4o mini [27] for
evaluation.
C. Implementation
After the task selection is completed, we designed a gen-
eral prompt template to standardize requests across different
categories of tasks, which contains the Task Description,
Instruction, Constraints, and Environment Information.
We implemented the benchmark as a toolbox enabling au-
tomated execution and evaluation. The agent frameworks were
deployed on a Linux server, each running within its respective
containers and sandboxes, using Python 3.10.14. We used
MetaGPT 0.8.1, AutoGen 0.2.36, and TaskWeaver (commit
hash number cf76c3b70b29ef64185fd3c9af0510c9e2fcc51e).
For the agent backbones, we employed two models: GPT-4o
(gpt-4o-2024-08-06) and GPT-4o mini (gpt-4o-mini-2024-07-
18). Results from task executions underwent post-processing
and information extraction to facilitate efficient automated
evaluation, while full logs were documented for later analysis.
IV. R ESULT ANALYSIS
This section presents evaluation results and summarizes the
failure causes into a taxonomy according to experiments.
A. Quantitative analysis
Table II and III presents the evaluation results on GPT-4o
and GPT-4o-mini with discussions as follows.
3857
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nova Southeastern University. Downloaded on August 30,2026 at 07:05:39 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

[[page 3]]
Agent failures
Task planning
Task execution
Response generation
Improper task decomposition
Failed self-refinement
Unrealistic planning
Infinite loop with same response
Tool usage
Incorrect code
Environment error
Lack of online knowledge
Syntax error
Functionality error
Incorrect API usage
Intent conflicting
Package dependencies (imported package, local env)
Workspace or Filepath not exist
Context window restraint 
Formatting issue
Max round limits (Different with infinite loop)
Information extraction error
Response format error
(See Sec IV-B-3-Case1)
(See Sec IV-B-3-Case2)
(See Sec IV-B-3-Case3)
Fig. 3: The agent failure taxonomy, where the most frequent failure is highlighted and illustrated in Sec. IV-B3.
TABLE III: Benchmark success rate ( GPT-4o mini).
Agent Web Crawling Data Analysis File Operations All
TaskWeaver 50.00 55.56 100.00 58.82
MetaGPT 25.00 66.67 50.00 50.00
AutoGen 41.67 44.44 100.00 50.00
Agent performance decreases on reasoning-intensive
tasks. Agent performance varies by task. Using GPT-4o,
agents perform well in Data analysis and File operations, with
TaskWeaver scoring 67% and 75%, respectively. Web crawling
is more challenging, with scores as low as 17%, due to its
reasoning-intensive nature, requiring code generators to infer
element paths from user intent and HTML data. Compared
to unstructured web tasks, simpler, structured tasks like data
analysis benefit more from autonomous agents.
A cross-agent comparison reveals distinct specializa-
tions. With GPT-4o, TaskWeaver leads in structured tasks
such as Data analysis (67%) and File operations (75%), while
MetaGPT excels in Web crawling (33%). Both TaskWeaver
and AutoGen achieve perfect scores in File Operations,
highlighting their architectures’ strong compatibility with the
lightweight model for executing precise, procedural tasks.
While stronger models have higher reasoning capa-
bilities, they might run into the overthinking issue and
compromise results. In our evaluation, both TaskWeaver and
MetaGPT show strong results with GPT-4o, scoring 50.00%
and 47.06% overall. Surprisingly, the smaller GPT-4o-mini
outperforms, especially in web crawling tasks, indicating that
simpler models can remain highly competitive. Analysis of
execution logs reveals that GPT-4o’s failures stem from a
conflict between its task-planning processes (such as request-
ing additional confirmations) and built-in safety constraints
(like denying web scraping), causing it to produce valid plans
but then halt execution. Such “overthinking” ultimately results
in task failure. The superior performance of GPT-4o-mini is
consistent with prior research findings [28].
More iterations improve success, but with diminishing
gains after a certain threshold. Figure 2 shows the success
rate over the threshold of iterations in TaskWeaver. The success
rate is zero for the first two iterations, indicating that a
minimum number of attempts is necessary to solve the tasks.
Between iterations 3 and 10, there is a rapid improvement in
the success rate for both models, with the most significant
gains occurring in this phase. After 10 iterations, increasing
the maximum number of iterations yields only marginal gains.
B. Failure study
1) Manual investigation: The experiments were conducted
across 34 tasks, 2 LLM backbones, and 3 agent frameworks,
totaling 204 runs, with 104 task failures recorded along with
detailed experimental logs. We recruit three authors, each with
a minimum of two years of programming experience, to review
the agent execution logs. These logs include comprehensive
information such as prompt construction for each agent, indi-
vidual agent outputs, and execution results for every iteration.
Our investigation began with the first-level failure tax-
onomy, where all annotators agreed to categorize failures
according to the roles of key phases: task planning, task
execution, and response generation. Next, each annotator inde-
pendently reviewed the failure logs to summarize second-level
failure reasons. Finally, they collaboratively discussed their
categorizations and reached consensus on the final taxonomy.
2) Failure taxonomy: Figure 3 presents the failure taxon-
omy, which encompasses 19 distinct causes across three tiers.
Task planning. A planner is responsible for breaking down
user instructions into a sequence of executable sub-tasks for
the code generator. This role is critical since the planner’s
output directly guides subsequent agents and largely deter-
mines the success of the overall framework. We identified three
common issues in planning: (1) improper task decomposition
that generates steps that are logically incorrect or unsuitable
for the assigned task; (2) failed self-refinement involves the
model is unable to learn from its past errors, causing it
to repeat the same failed sub-tasks in an infinite loop; (3)
unrealistic planning refers to producing a sequence of plausible
steps but exceeds the practical capabilities of downstream
agents, making the sub-tasks impossible to execute.
Task execution. Task execution is the phase where the
agent attempts to carry out the planned sub-tasks, involving the
failures from the code generator and executor. Existing agent
frameworks encounter three main failures: (1) the generator
agent fails to exploit external tools (e.g., available functions),
3858
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nova Southeastern University. Downloaded on August 30,2026 at 07:05:39 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

[[page 4]]
Is there a linear relationship between the GDP per capita a nd … in the data?
1. Read data; 2. Ask user to confirm using linear analysis
# Find the section listing the functions
function_list = soup.find_all('dl’)….
Planning…
Count how many functions are available in this website… ?
Generating 
code…
<Case 1>
<Case 2>
What is the rate for the timestamp "20170413_080000” in … ?
<Case 3>
Response
iteration…
Data schema 
error
Column key
error
Empty 
DataFrame
Fig. 4: Three most common failure types.
often due to a lack of online or tool-use knowledge. (2)
the generator agent produces flawed code with syntax er-
rors, functionality errors (executable but deviating from the
intended output), incorrect API usage with wrong parameters,
or showing conflicts to its original goal, and (3) executions
also fail with improper environmental setup, such as missing
dependency package and accessing a file that does not exist.
Response generation. Response generation is the final
stage where the agent produces output for the user or the
planner to use in subsequent iterations. Failures at this stage
relate to how results are perceived and presented, even after
the code has been executed. Three main failures causes are:
(1) context window restraint: the agent loses parts of the
conversation, leading to responses that are disconnected from
previous interactions (e.g., an overly large HTML file in a web
crawling task), (2) formatting issue: the agent’s output contains
irrelevant information or does not comply with the required
format (e.g., returning a sentence when a number is expected),
(3) maximum rounds exceeded: The agent reaches a preset
limit on the number of interaction turns without successfully
completing the task, despite attempting various plans.
3) Common failure analysis: For the most common failure
in phases (i.e., planning, execution, and response generation),
we present one case for each in Figure 4 and analyse as
follows.
Case 1: The user asks the agent to verify a linear relation-
ship between data. However, instead of proceeding directly
to generate the necessary code for the analysis, the planner
adds a redundant step: asking the user for confirmation to use
linear analysis, though such usage has been specified in task
description. This unnecessary clarification introduces a bottle-
neck, halting the process until user feedback is provided. Such
redundant planning not only delays the task but also degrades
the user experience by creating unnecessary interaction.
Case 2: When tasked with counting the number of functions
on a website, the agent generates code that operates on an
incorrect assumption. The code soup.find_all(’dl’)
presumes that all <dl> HTML tags on the page are used
exclusively for listing functions. However, on complex web-
pages like technical documentation, these tags are often used
for a variety of purposes, including navigation, definitions, or
other structural elements. This flawed assumption leads to an
incorrect count and demonstrates a failure to understand the
contextual use of HTML structure, resulting in faulty code.
Case 3: The agent fails when trying to find a specific
data point. It first gets a KeyError due to an additional
space in a column name. The agent then switches to an
alternative strategy of retrieving the entire row, which also
fails in Empty DataFrame . Such an error implies that the
agent faces challenges in self-correcting based on the output
of its previous checks. It therefore leads to a loop of failures
that ultimately exceeds the maximum attempts and causes the
task to fail.
V. A CTIONS ON MITIGATING AGENT FAILURES
The failures analyzed highlight critical weaknesses in agent
systems, particularly in planning and error correction. To
address these, we propose two key strategies as follows.
Promoting planning ability with learning-from-
feedback. Planner is the first and fundamental component
of an autonomous agent, decomposing complex tasks into
executable steps. We therefore advocate for a “learning-from-
feedback” design, where agents learn to re-plan from their
previous operational environment feedback. Recent work
shows that agents can dynamically adjust plans based on tool
feedback, deciding whether to refine or restart [29], [30] the
pre-defined plan, avoiding rigid and illogical steps. Such a
feedback-aware mechanism also shows promise in software
engineering applications like program repair [31] and code
generation [32], [33]. This allows the agent to adapt new
strategies when faced with unexpected outcomes.
Developing early-stop and navigation mechanism. Fail-
ures like infinite loops and hitting round limits highlight the
agent’s inability to recover from repeated mistakes. To this
end, future agent systems can develop a meta-controller that
navigates to a certain agent upon root cause analysis, either re-
planning to correct a strategic error or invoking a specialized
tool to fix a local execution fault. Proper navigation can
efficiently fix the problem, reducing task attempts and im-
proving reliability. Moreover, if the system detects repetitive,
unresolved errors, the mechanism should trigger an “early
stop”, halting the process before it hits the maximum round
limit, thereby saving resources.
VI. C ONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK
This study investigates autonomous agent systems, focusing
on their collaboration mechanisms and the reasons behind
their failures in completing end-to-end tasks. We evaluate
three popular agent frameworks using a newly developed
benchmark, analyze their outcomes, and classify the causes
of failure. Additionally, we propose two practical design
strategies for agent frameworks to address common failure
modes. In the future, we aim to enrich the benchmark and
implement these strategies. Our benchmark data and evaluation
framework can be found at https://github.com/lurf21/Agent
Evaluation Framework.
VII. A CKNOWLEDGMENT
We appreciate all the anonymous reviewers for their valu-
able and practical comments. The work was supported by the
Singapore Ministry of Education (MOE) Academic Research
Fund (AcRF) Tier 1 grant.
3859
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nova Southeastern University. Downloaded on August 30,2026 at 07:05:39 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

[[page 5]]
REFERENCES
[1] B. Qiao, L. Li, X. Zhang, S. He, Y . Kang, C. Zhang, F. Yang, H. Dong,
J. Zhang, L. Wang et al., “Taskweaver: A code-first agent framework,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.17541 , 2023.
[2] Q. Wu, G. Bansal, J. Zhang, Y . Wu, B. Li, E. Zhu, L. Jiang, X. Zhang,
S. Zhang, J. Liu, A. H. Awadallah, R. W. White, D. Burger, and
C. Wang, “Autogen: Enabling next-gen LLM applications via multi-
agent conversations,” in First Conference on Language Modeling, 2024.
[3] K. Zhang, J. Li, G. Li, X. Shi, and Z. Jin, “CodeAgent: Enhancing code
generation with tool-integrated agent systems for real-world repo-level
coding challenges,” in Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the
Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) .
Bangkok, Thailand: Association for Computational Linguistics, Aug.
2024, pp. 13 643–13 658.
[4] X. Wang, Y . Chen, L. Yuan, Y . Zhang, Y . Li, H. Peng, and H. Ji,
“Executable code actions elicit better llm agents,” in Proceedings of
the 41st International Conference on Machine Learning , ser. ICML’24.
JMLR.org, 2024.
[5] A. Zhou, K. Wang, Z. Lu, W. Shi, S. Luo, Z. Qin, S. Lu, A. Jia, L. Song,
M. Zhan, and H. Li, “Solving challenging math word problems using
gpt-4 code interpreter with code-based self-verification,” in International
Conference on Representation Learning , vol. 2024, 2024, pp. 4468–
4494.
[6] C. Zhang, S. Zhang, Y . Hu, H. Shen, K. Liu, Z. Ma, F. Zhou, W. Zhang,
X. He, D. Lin et al. , “Cibench: Evaluating your llms with a code
interpreter plugin,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.10499 , 2024.
[7] A. Low and Z. Y . Kalender, “Data dialogue with chatgpt: Using code
interpreter to simulate and analyse experimental data,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2311.12415, 2023.
[8] Y . Zhang, Z. Ma, Y . Ma, Z. Han, Y . Wu, and V . Tresp, “Webpilot: A
versatile and autonomous multi-agent system for web task execution
with strategic exploration,” in Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on
Artificial Intelligence, vol. 39, no. 22, 2025, pp. 23 378–23 386.
[9] C. Guo, X. Liu, C. Xie, A. Zhou, Y . Zeng, Z. Lin, D. Song, and B. Li,
“Redcode: Risky code execution and generation benchmark for code
agents,” Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , vol. 37,
pp. 106 190–106 236, 2024.
[10] J. Liu, K. Wang, Y . Chen, X. Peng, Z. Chen, L. Zhang, and Y . Lou,
“Large language model-based agents for software engineering: A sur-
vey,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.02977 , 2024.
[11] J. He, C. Treude, and D. Lo, “Llm-based multi-agent systems for
software engineering: Literature review, vision, and the road ahead,”
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology , vol. 34,
no. 5, pp. 1–30, 2025.
[12] C. S. Xia, Y . Deng, S. Dunn, and L. Zhang, “Demystifying llm-based
software engineering agents,” Proc. ACM Softw. Eng. , vol. 2, no. FSE,
Jun. 2025.
[13] Y . Dong, X. Jiang, Z. Jin, and G. Li, “Self-collaboration code generation
via chatgpt,” ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Method-
ology, vol. 33, no. 7, pp. 1–38, 2024.
[14] D. Jin, Z. Jin, X. Chen, and C. Wang, “Mare: Multi-agents col-
laboration framework for requirements engineering,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2405.03256, 2024.
[15] B. Wei, “Requirements are all you need: From requirements to code
with llms,” in 2024 IEEE 32nd International Requirements Engineering
Conference (RE). IEEE, 2024, pp. 416–422.
[16] Y . Liu, P. Gao, X. Wang, J. Liu, Y . Shi, Z. Zhang, and C. Peng,
“Marscode agent: Ai-native automated bug fixing,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2409.00899, 2024.
[17] Y . Ding, M. J. Min, G. Kaiser, and B. Ray, “Cycle: Learning to self-
refine the code generation,” Proceedings of the ACM on Programming
Languages, vol. 8, no. OOPSLA1, pp. 392–418, 2024.
[18] X. Jiang, Y . Dong, L. Wang, Z. Fang, Q. Shang, G. Li, Z. Jin, and
W. Jiao, “Self-planning code generation with large language models,”
ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology , vol. 33,
no. 7, pp. 1–30, 2024.
[19] N. M ¨undler, M. M ¨uller, J. He, and M. Vechev, “Swt-bench: Testing and
validating real-world bug-fixes with code agents,” Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems , vol. 37, pp. 81 857–81 887, 2024.
[20] Z. Liu, C. Chen, J. Wang, M. Chen, B. Wu, X. Che, D. Wang, and
Q. Wang, “Make llm a testing expert: Bringing human-like interaction to
mobile gui testing via functionality-aware decisions,” in Proceedings of
the IEEE/ACM 46th International Conference on Software Engineering ,
2024, pp. 1–13.
[21] Y . Chen, Z. Hu, C. Zhi, J. Han, S. Deng, and J. Yin, “Chatunitest: A
framework for llm-based test generation,” in Companion Proceedings of
the 32nd ACM International Conference on the Foundations of Software
Engineering, 2024, pp. 572–576.
[22] X. Hu, Z. Zhao, S. Wei, Z. Chai, Q. Ma, G. Wang, X. Wang, J. Su, J. Xu,
M. Zhu, Y . Cheng, J. Yuan, J. Li, K. Kuang, Y . Yang, H. Yang, and
F. Wu, “Infiagent-dabench: evaluating agents on data analysis tasks,” in
Proceedings of the 41st International Conference on Machine Learning ,
ser. ICML’24. JMLR.org, 2024.
[23] B. Bogin, K. Yang, S. Gupta, K. Richardson, E. Bransom, P. Clark,
A. Sabharwal, and T. Khot, “Super: Evaluating agents on setting up and
executing tasks from research repositories,” in Proceedings of the 2024
Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing ,
2024, pp. 12 622–12 645.
[24] S. Yao, N. Shinn, P. Razavi, and K. Narasimhan, “τ-bench: A benchmark
for tool-agent-user interaction in real-world domains,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2406.12045, 2024.
[25] S. Hong, M. Zhuge, J. Chen, X. Zheng, Y . Cheng, J. Wang, C. Zhang,
Z. Wang, S. K. S. Yau, Z. Lin, L. Zhou, C. Ran, L. Xiao, C. Wu,
and J. Schmidhuber, “MetaGPT: Meta programming for a multi-agent
collaborative framework,” in The Twelfth International Conference on
Learning Representations, 2024.
[26] OpenAI, “Gpt-4o,” 2024, https://openai.com/index/hello-gpt-4o/.
[27] ——, “Gpt-4o mini,” 2024, https://openai.com/index/gpt-4o-mini-
advancing-cost-efficient-intelligence/.
[28] J. A. Schnabel, J. R. Trippas, F. Scholer, and D. Hettiachchi, “Multi-
stage large language model pipelines can outperform gpt-4o in relevance
assessment,” in Companion Proceedings of the ACM on Web Conference
2025, 2025, pp. 1288–1292.
[29] S. Yao, J. Zhao, D. Yu, N. Du, I. Shafran, K. Narasimhan, and Y . Cao,
“React: Synergizing reasoning and acting in language models,” in
International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR) , 2023.
[30] S. Hao, Y . Gu, H. Ma, J. Hong, Z. Wang, D. Wang, and Z. Hu,
“Reasoning with language model is planning with world model,” in
Proceedings of the 2023 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing . Singapore: Association for Computational
Linguistics, Dec. 2023, pp. 8154–8173.
[31] C. S. Xia and L. Zhang, “Automated program repair via conversation:
Fixing 162 out of 337 bugs for $0.42 each using chatgpt,” inProceedings
of the 33rd ACM SIGSOFT International Symposium on Software Testing
and Analysis, 2024, pp. 819–831.
[32] Y . Peng, A. D. Gotmare, M. R. Lyu, C. Xiong, S. Savarese, and
D. Sahoo, “Perfcodegen: Improving performance of llm generated code
with execution feedback,” in 2025 IEEE/ACM Second International
Conference on AI Foundation Models and Software Engineering (Forge).
IEEE, 2025, pp. 1–13.
[33] K. Zhang, Z. Li, J. Li, G. Li, and Z. Jin, “Self-edit: Fault-aware code
editor for code generation,” in Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of
the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers),
2023, pp. 769–787.
3860
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nova Southeastern University. Downloaded on August 30,2026 at 07:05:39 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.