[[page 1]]
A Pair Programming Framework for Code Generation via
Multi-Plan Exploration and Feedback-Driven Refinement
Huan Zhang
State Key Laboratory for Novel Software Technology
Nanjing University
Nanjing, China
zhanghuan.nju@gmail.com
Wei Cheng
State Key Laboratory for Novel Software Technology
Nanjing University
Nanjing, China
wchengcs.nju@gmail.com
Yuhan Wu
State Key Laboratory for Novel Software Technology
Nanjing University
Nanjing, China
yhwu.nju@gmail.com
Wei Hu∗
State Key Laboratory for Novel Software Technology
National Institute of Healthcare Data Science
Nanjing University
Nanjing, China
whu@nju.edu.cn
ABSTRACT
Large language models (LLMs) have achieved impressive perfor-
mance on code generation. Although prior studies enhanced LLMs
with prompting techniques and code refinement, they still struggle
with complex programming problems due to rigid solution plans.
In this paper, we draw on pair programming practices to propose
PairCoder, a novel LLM-based framework for code generation.
PairCoder incorporates two collaborative LLM agents, namely a
Navigator agent for high-level planning and a Driver agent for
specific implementation. The Navigator is responsible for propos-
ing promising solution plans, selecting the current optimal plan,
and directing the next iteration round based on execution feed-
back. The Driver follows the guidance of Navigatorto undertake
initial code generation, code testing, and refinement. This inter-
leaved and iterative workflow involves multi-plan exploration and
feedback-based refinement, which mimics the collaboration of pair
programmers. We evaluate PairCoder with both open-source and
closed-source LLMs on various code generation benchmarks. Ex-
tensive experimental results demonstrate the superior accuracy of
PairCoder, achieving relative pass@1 improvements of 12.00%–
162.43% compared to prompting LLMs directly.
CCS CONCEPTS
• Software and its engineering→ Automatic programming.
KEYWORDS
Code generation, Large language model, Agent, Pair programming
∗Corresponding author
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the
author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or
republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission
and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
ASE ’24, October 27-November 1, 2024, Sacramento, CA, USA
© 2024 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
ACM ISBN 979-8-4007-1248-7/24/10
https://doi.org/10.1145/3691620.3695506
ACM Reference Format:
Huan Zhang, Wei Cheng, Yuhan Wu, and Wei Hu. 2024. A Pair Programming
Framework for Code Generation via Multi-Plan Exploration and Feedback-
Driven Refinement. In39th IEEE/ACM International Conference on Automated
Software Engineering (ASE ’24), October 27-November 1, 2024, Sacramento, CA,
USA. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 13 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3691620.
3695506
1 INTRODUCTION
Code generation aims to automatically generate executable source
code that conforms to given requirements, typically expressed in
natural language. Recent progress in large language models (LLMs)
has significantly improved software development productivity by
reducing repetitive programming efforts [23, 35]. The success of
commercial models like ChatGPT [33] and Claude [1], along with
powerful open-source models like Code Llama [40] and DeepSeek
Coder [14], has attracted substantial interest from both academia
and industry. These advancements demonstrate the remarkable
capabilities of LLMs in code generation and have great potential to
influence the field of intelligent software engineering [9, 13, 48].
As requirements become more complex, it becomes challenging
for LLMs (and even humans) to directly generate code that meets
the given requirements [ 10]. One key focus of existing work is
prompting techniques, which guide LLMs to produce intermediate
reasoning steps for problem descriptions. This line of work [22, 25,
46] focuses on designing different types of prompts to stimulate the
reasoning abilities of LLMs, enabling them to generate intermediate
steps before producing the final code. Another important aspect
is that generating the correct code is rarely a one-time effort [ 7].
Several studies [5, 27, 31] employ sampling-based approaches to
filter or rank the numerous responses generated by LLMs, relying
on a substantial number of samples. Other works [7, 32, 45] attempt
to refine the generated code using feedback from LLMs themselves
or external sources. They introduce a debugging process to make
the generated program behave as expected. Furthermore, a few
works [10, 16, 37] explore the use of collaborative LLM agents to
simulate human software development processes.
Although existing approaches have improved code generation,
they still have significant limitations. First, most approaches focus
1319
2024 39th IEEE/ACM International Conference on Automated Software Engineering (ASE)

[[page 2]]
ASE ’24, October 27-November 1, 2024, Sacramento, CA, USA Zhang et al.
Problem description
Given an integer sequence a1, a2, …, an, you 
can perform the operation any number of times:
 * Select any positive integer k, then insert k 
 into the sequence at any position.
Find the minimum number of operations to 
make the sequence satisfy: ai ≤ i (1 ≤ i ≤ n).
... incorrectly calculates the difference 
between ai and (i + 1) ...
...
operations += max(0, a[ i] - ( i + 1))
...
···
...
operations = 0
for i in range(n):
 if a[ i] > i + 1:
 operations += a[ i] - ( i + 1)
...
 Wrong answer
Plan A
... Iterate over the sequence: 
1. If ai > i+1, calculate the diff : ai - (i+1);
2. Increment operations by diff ... 
...
for i in range(n):
 max_diff = max(max_diff, \
 a[ i] - ( i + 1))
print(max_diff)
...
 Passed
Don't beat a dead horse!
We need change another plan!
Plan B
... Iterate over the sequence: 
1. If ai > i+1, calculate the diff : ai - (i+1);
2. keep track of the max diff so far;
3. print the max diff as the result ... 
...
a[i] = i+1
...
repaired code
... sequence not been updated, fix a[i]=i+1
analysis
iterative repair
Don't put all eggs in one basket.
We need backup plans! 
Failed
 Succeeded
Figure 1: A competitive programming problem excerpted
from the CodeContest benchmark (#test87) [27]. Both the
plans and codes are generated by GPT-3.5-Turbo.
too narrowly on generating a single solution plan, lacking high-
level planning and problem decomposition capabilities. Due to the
inherent complexity of real-world problems, a single solving path
often fails to produce correct code directly. Second, if the initially
generated code follows a flawed plan, the feedback-based repair
process is likely to be misguided by the initial incorrect direction,
failing to address fundamental issues. This deviates from how hu-
man developers tackle programming problems in practice. Human
developers typically start with high-level problem analysis and pro-
pose multiple potential solution plans. Then, they evaluate these
plans based on continuous implementation and testing feedback. If
the current plan is deemed infeasible or reaches an impasse, they
will decisively abandon it and explore alternatives. This iterative cy-
cle of “multi-plan exploration and practical feedback” ensures that
human developers can efficiently solve complex problems without
being constrained by a single flawed plan.
To overcome these limitations, we propose PairCoder, a novel
code generation framework inspired by pair programming practices
[47] in software engineering. In pair programming, two developers
play the roles of “navigator" and “driver": the former is responsi-
ble for high-level planning and direction, while the latter focuses
on implementing the current task. We adapt pair programming
practices to LLM-based code generation by introducing two in-
telligent agents: Navigator and Driver. The Navigator’s role
includes starting with high-level problem analysis (referred to as
reflection), generating multiple potential solution plans, selecting
the best current plan, and directing the subsequent process based
on the Driver’s execution feedback. The Driver generates or re-
pairs the code according to theNavigator’s guidance and provides
execution feedback for subsequent adjustment.
This Navigator-Driver framework mimics the iterative and
adaptive strategies employed by human developers. By starting with
reflection and generating multiple plans, it avoids the constraints
of a single flawed plan. Continuous feedback interaction between
the Navigator and the Driver allows for dynamic plan adjust-
ment, enabling the abandonment of infeasible plans and exploring
new directions when necessary. This iterative cycle significantly
improves the robustness and quality of code generation for real-
world tasks. We conduct extensive experiments to evaluate our
PairCoder on five diverse code generation benchmarks using both
open-source (DeepSeek-Coder [14]) and closed-source (GPT-3.5-
Turbo [34]) LLMs. The results show that on the pass@1 metric,
PairCoder achieves superior accuracy over competitive baselines
across all benchmarks for both LLMs.
In summary, the key contributions in this paper are outlined as
follows:
• We are the first to adapt pair programming practices into
LLM-based code generation and propose a new framework
called PairCoder that comprises two collaborative agents: a
Navigatorfor high-level planning and aDriver for specific
implementation. (Sect. 3.1)
• PairCoder integrates two key mechanisms: (i) multi-plan
exploration achieved by the Navigatorthrough adjusting
diverse solution plans, and (ii) feedback-driven refinement
based on execution feedback from the Driver and historical
memory. (Sects. 3.2 and 3.3)
• PairCoder significantly outperforms all competitive base-
lines on five benchmarks. It gains relative improvements of
16.97%–162.43% on GPT-3.5-Turbo and 12.00%–128.76% on
DeepSeek-Coder-Instruct 33B compared to prompting LLMs
directly. (Sect. 4) The source code is publicly available on
GitHub.1
2 MOTIV ATING EXAMPLE
Fig. 1 shows a programming problem from the CodeContest bench-
mark [27]: given an integer sequence a1, a2, . . . ,an, find the mini-
mum number of insertions to ensure∀1≤ i≤ n, ai≤ i.
The prompting approaches [22, 25, 46] generate intermediate
reasoning steps based on the problem description to guide code
generation, as excerpted in Plan A. Considering an input sequence
“1, 3, 4" in public test cases, it is evident that a single operation is
sufficient to satisfy the requirement, i.e., inserting ‘2’ between ‘1’
and ‘3’. Guided by Plan A, the first code snippet on the left side of
Fig. 1 incorrectly assumes that two insertions are required. This
feedback from code testing can help LLMs repair the generated code
[7, 32, 45]. However, iterative repairs do not yield the right answers
as they stubbornly follow the flawed Plan A, which incorrectly
accumulates operations. For example, LLMs would mistake the
bug as an incorrect calculation of the difference between ai and
(i + 1), or that the sequence has not been updated. We believe this
dilemma arises from an inherent pitfall of the single-path approach:
once an incorrect blueprint is initially established, LLMs struggle
to identify the root cause of the error and thus mislead subsequent
repairs.
In contrast, human programmers do not put all eggs in one
basket. If the current plan is deemed ineffective, they will explore
alternative plans. Plan B correctly solves the problem by tracking
1https://github.com/nju-websoft/PairCoder
1320

[[page 3]]
A Pair Programming Framework for Code Generation ASE ’24, October 27-November 1, 2024, Sacramento, CA, USA
1. Propose promising plans
Embedding
Clustering
Representative
plans
2. Select optimal plan
▸ Correctness
▸ Efficiency
▸ Robustness
▸ ...
 Remaining 
candidates
3. Generate initial code
Executable 
code
▸ Problem——————
▸ Plan——————
4. Perform code testing
▸ Runtime Error
▸ Wrong Answer
▸ Time Limit Exceeded
 6. Repair buggy code
Repaired
code
▸ Problem————
▸ Code————
▸ Strategy————
Problem description
5. Direct next iteration
Change to 
another plan
Repair 
current bug
Repair 
strategy
Historical
memory
▸ Current code
▸ Execution feedback
Private test cases
DriverDriver
NavigatorNavigator
···
Diverse plans
▸ Pass
Reflection
▸ Details
▸ Explanation
▸ In/Output format
▸ Edge cases
▸ … 
Figure 2: Overview of our PairCoder, in which a Navigator agent and a Driver agent collaborate on code generation.
the maximum difference between ai and(i + 1). With the proper
solution plan, LLMs generate the correct code instead of getting
stuck in a refinement loop under Plan A.
In practice, solving complex problems often requires exploring
multiple solution plans, and timely adjustment can mitigate wasted
effort on flawed plans. The role of multi-plan exploration and flexi-
ble adjustment is analogous to that of the “navigator-driver" in pair
programming, serving as the key inspiration for our work.
3 FRAMEWORK
3.1 Overview
We first formulate the realistic problem of code generation as gener-
ating a program C from a natural language descriptionQ and a set
of public (visible) test casesTv =

(Ii , Oi)
 mv
i=1, where Oi denotes
the desired output for the input Ii . Based on the execution feed-
back fromTv , LLMs can iteratively refine the generated program
C, having a maximum number of iterations r to control cost and
efficiency. Finally,C is considered correct if its behavior is consis-
tent with the test oracle [ 17], which is usually represented by a
set of private (hidden) test casesTh =

(Ii , Oi)
 mh
i=1, i.e., satisfying
that∀( Ii , Oi)∈T h, C(Ii) = Oi . Note that the accessibleTv is not a
complete test, whileTh is invisible during the code generation and
refinement stages.
Fig. 2 illustrates the workflow of PairCoder. Both the Navi-
gator and Driver agents are powered by an LLM with general-
purpose capabilities, such as GPT-3.5-Turbo [33]. The Navigator
guides the Driver by generating solution plans and repair strate-
gies. Therefore, the Driver focuses all its attention on specific code
tasks, including code generation, code testing, and refinement. The
workflow of the two agents is interleaved and iterates until the gen-
erated program C passes all public test casesTv or the maximum
number of iterations r is reached. To clearly describe the details of
PairCoder, we present Algorithm 1 throughout this section.
3.2 Navigator Agent
The Navigatoragent serves as the main controller in deeply un-
derstanding the problem and providing strategic direction. Its role
is to propose multiple promising plans (Step 1 in Fig. 2), select the
currently best solution plan (Step 2), and direct the next iteration
based on execution feedback and historical memory (Step 5).
Propose promising plans. The Navigator first reflects on the
given natural language descriptionQ (Line 1 in Algorithm 1). The
prompt for LLMs is shown in Fig. 3. It stimulates LLMs to explicitly
analyze the details of the problem, consider possible valid inputs
and edge cases, and explain public test cases. This reflection process
enables the Navigator to gain a comprehensive understanding of
the core logic, constraints, and requirements for effective problem
solving.
With the comprehensive reflection on the problem, the Navi-
gator further comes up with specific solution plans (Line 2). As
shown in Fig. 4, we include brief examples in prompts to guide the
proposal and emphasize the functional correctness of the proposed
plans. Each plan outlines a high-level solution and key implemen-
tation steps in concise natural language. To obtain diverse solution
plans, we set a non-zero temperature for multiple nucleus sam-
pling [15] and ask LLMs to generate multiple plans in each batch
[8], which improves sampling efficiency while reducing duplicate
plans. After brainstorming through multiple sampling, we select
k representative plans as candidates. Specifically, we first divide
1321

[[page 4]]
ASE ’24, October 27-November 1, 2024, Sacramento, CA, USA Zhang et al.
Algorithm 1: PairCoder
Input: problem descriptionQ, public test casesTv
[Agents]: Navigator modelMN , Driver modelMD
[Memories]: code historyHc , feedback historyHf
[Hyperparameters]: the maximum number of iterations r,
the number of sampled plans n, the number of clusters k
Output: generated code C
1 re f lection←M N(·| ReflectPrompt,Q);
2 {Pi}n
i=1←M N(·| PlanPrompt,Q, re f lection);
3 S← ClusterPlans({Pi}n
i=1, k); // S⊆{ Pi}n
i =1∧∥ S∥ = k
4 C← NU LL; F← NU LL;
5 for j := 1 to r do
6 if(j = 1)∨( C∈H c)∨(F ∈H f) then
// select a new solution plan
7 plan←M N(·| SelectPrompt,Q, re f lection, S);
8 S← S\{ plan};
9 Hc←∅ ;Hf ←∅ ;
10 C←M D(·| CodePrompt,Q, plan);
11 else // stick to the current plan
12 Hc←H c∪{ C};Hf ←H f∪{ F};
13 strate дy←M N(·| AnalyzePrompt,Q, C, F);
14 C←M D(·| RepairPrompt,Q, C, strate дy);
15 F← ExecuteTests(C,Tv);
16 if F = Pass then break ;
17 return C;
all n samples into k clusters using a text embedding model and the
classical k-means++ algorithm [2], and then select the plan closest
to the cluster centroid from each cluster (Line 3). Intuitively, the
Navigatorgroups similar plans together and selects representative
ones, ensuring a diverse set of high-level solution plans. These can
involve techniques like brute force search, greedy algorithm, or
other problem-solving strategies.
Select optimal plan. In each iteration, there is a determined solu-
tion plan to guide code generation or refinement. Whenever a plan
needs to be initially selected or discarded, the Navigatorselects
the optimal plan from the remaining candidates (Line 7). Follow-
ing the previous studies [ 21, 52], we also make choices through
LLMs, where the prompt template is shown in Fig. 5. Considering
the problem description and reflection together, the Navigator
leverages the reasoning capabilities of LLMs to consolidate multiple
key factors in code quality, including correctness, efficiency, and
robustness. Note that functional correctness takes precedence over
efficiency. We prefer to try an inefficient but intuitive solution plan
first, such as a direct brute force method, which is in line with the
common practice of human programmers to prioritize problem-
solving before optimization. Once a plan is selected, it is removed
from the candidates, preventing it from being selected again in
subsequent iterations (Line 8).
Direct next iteration. Once the generated code C in the last itera-
tion does not pass all the public test casesTv , it is the Navigator’s
turn to direct the next iteration. Instead of stubbornly persisting in
system= """\
You are an experienced programmer.
You are given a coding problem:
<<Problem Description>>
Given the coding problem, you have two tasks using natural 
language:
1. reflect on the problem:
- For simple problems, briefly provide a concise explanation 
and note all possible valid inputs and edge cases. Avoid 
overthinking.
- For complex problems, provide a comprehensive analysis 
covering all aspects, details, nuances, and how to properly 
handle all possible valid inputs and edge cases per problem 
description.
2. For provided public test case(s) in description, briefly 
explain how the specified input yields the expected output 
based on the problem description.
ReflectPrompt
<<Reflection>>
This problem requires finding the minimum operations to 
modify a sequence so each element is less than or equal to 
its index ...
Simple inputs where the sequence meets the condition, 
complex inputs needing multiple operations, and edge cases 
like an empty sequence ...
For input [1, 3, 4], 1 operation is needed. Insert 2 to get 
[1, 2, 3, 4].
You are given a coding problem: <<Problem Description>>
Given the coding problem, you have two tasks using natural 
language:
1. reflect on the problem:
- For simple problems, briefly provide a concise explanation 
and note all possible valid inputs and edge cases. Avoid 
overthinking.
- For complex problems, provide a comprehensive analysis 
covering all aspects, details, nuances, and how to properly 
handle all possible valid inputs and edge cases per problem 
description.
2. For provided public test case(s) in description, briefly 
explain how the specified input yields the expected output 
based on the problem description.
ReflectPrompt
Figure 3: The prompt template used by the Navigator to
reflect on the given problem description and an output ex-
ample of the reflection.
You are given a coding problem: <<Problem Description>>
Self-reflection on the problem: <<Relfection>>
Provide up to 3 possible solution plans to the problem.
Each solution plan should:
1.Have a descriptive name.
2.Outline the solution approach:
- For simple problems (e.g., reversing a list), provide a 
concise solution (e.g., we can directly use list1[::-1] to 
do it.).
- For complex problems (e.g., finding the shortest path in a 
graph), provide a problem-solving plan with high-level steps 
(e.g., we can use BFS to solve it. First, Initialize a queue 
with... Second, ...).
 If necessary, select an appropriate algorithm through 
problem analysis such as brute force, simulation, greedy, 
hash map, two pointers, DFS/BFS, stack/queue, DP, etc.
3.Ensure functional correctness by addressing all possible 
valid inputs and edge cases per problem description.
PlanPrompt
You are given a coding problem: <<Problem Description>>
Self-reflection on the problem: <<Relfection>>
Provide up to 3 possible solution plans to the problem.
Each solution plan should:
1.Have a descriptive name.
2.Outline the solution approach:
- For simple problems (e.g., reversing a list), provide a 
concise solution (e.g., we can directly use list1[::-1] to 
do it.).
- For complex problems (e.g., finding the shortest path in a 
graph), provide a problem-solving plan with high-level steps 
(e.g., we can use BFS to solve it. First, Initialize a queue 
with... Second, ...).
 If necessary, select an appropriate algorithm through 
problem analysis such as brute force, simulation, greedy, 
hash map, two pointers, DFS/BFS, stack/queue, DP, etc.
3.Ensure functional correctness by addressing all possible 
valid inputs and edge cases per problem description.
PlanPrompt
<<Solution Plans>>
(1) Greedy Approach
 - Initialize `operations` to 0.
 - Iterate through the sequence.
 - For each a i at position i, if ai > i, calculate `diff` as 
ai - i and track the max`diff`.
 - Output the final value of `operations`.
(2) Brute Force Approach
 - Set `min_operations` to infinity.
 - Generate all possible sequences.
 - For each sequence, check conditions and count operations.
 - Update `min_operations` if fewer operations are needed.
(3) ...
Figure 4: The prompt template for sampling multiple plans
and an output example of solution plans.
a single solving path to repair the incorrect code [7, 42, 45, 54], the
Navigatorcan timely adjust the solution plan to seek a turnaround.
We observe that code refinement tends to get stuck in a dead-end
1322

[[page 5]]
A Pair Programming Framework for Code Generation ASE ’24, October 27-November 1, 2024, Sacramento, CA, USA
You are given a coding problem: <<Problem Description>>
Self-reflection on the problem: <<Relfection>>
Here is a list of <<k>> possible solutions to the problem: 
<<k candidates>>
Choose the most robust and correct solution and provide a 
brief explanation for your choice. The selected solution 
should:
- Prioritize functional correctness over efficiency. If 
there is a simulation method or a direct brute force method 
available, prefer it.
- Fully solve the problem and correctly handle all possible 
valid inputs and edge cases as per the problem description.
- Consider more efficient methods only if they do not 
compromise correctness.
SelectPrompt
1. Prioritize functional correctness over efficiency. If 
there is a simulation method or a direct brute force 
method available, prefer it.
2. Fully solve the problem and correctly handle all 
possible valid inputs and edge cases as per the problem 
description.
3. Consider more efficient methods only if they do not 
compromise correctness.
- Ensure functional correctness first; such as brute force or direct 
simulation methods are acceptable, then aiming for efficiency while 
preserving correctness.
- Fully solve the problem and correctly handle all possible valid inputs and 
edge cases, as per the problem description.
Figure 5: The prompt template for selecting the optimal so-
lution plan from the candidates.
loop if the generated code or execution feedback has already oc-
curred in the past. Therefore, we introduce a long-term memory
module to systematically store and maintain the coding and execu-
tion history under the current solution plan (Line 12). It consists of
the generated programsHc ={Ci}r
i=1 and the execution feedback
Hf ={F i}r
i=1, where F i is the execution feedback of the generated
code Ci in the i-th round of iteration, comprising specific error
type and execution details. We apply a simple but effectiveheuristic
strategy to determine whether to change the solution plan. Given
the buggy code and its execution feedback, the current solution
plan will be considered unpromising if any of them has already
occurred in the historical memoryHc andHf (Line 6), leading to a
re-selection of the optimal plan in Step 2. Whenever a new solution
plan is selected, the historical memory module is cleared to start
fresh (Line 9).
Another potential iteration direction is to repair the buggy code,
which pursues gradual progress without abandoning a promising
solution plan. Based on the execution feedback, the Navigator
leverages the reasoning ability of LLMs to propose a directive re-
pair strategy (Line 13). As shown in Fig. 6, the prompt for LLMs
comprises the problem description, the buggy code, and specific
execution feedback. For different types of execution feedback, we
slightly adjust the prompts to remind LLMs to focus on specific
aspects. Specifically, Runtime Error can suggest repairs that involve
syntax error or exception handling, e.g., array index out of bounds.
Wrong Answer indicates logic errors in the code, which may inspire
repair strategies like adjusting condition handling and data flow.
For the inefficient solution plans flagged by Time Limit Exceeded,
the Navigator may recommend optimizations to improve compu-
tational performance. The customized repair strategy will guide
the code refinement in Step 6 of the next iteration.
3.3 Driver Agent
In contrast to the high-level planning of theNavigator, theDriver
agent focuses all its attention on specific code tasks, including
generating initial code guided by a new plan (Step 3), testing code
on public test cases (Step 4), and repairing the buggy code (Step 6).
Generate initial code. Once a new solution plan is selected, the
Driver first generates an initial code implementation guided by the
You are given a coding problem: <<Problem Description>>
A Python code solution for the problem: <<Buggy Code>>
However, the code solution failed to produce the expected 
output: <<Execution feedback>>
Identify the specific part(s) of the code that contain 
logical errors or incorrect functional function(s) in the 
code. Briefly explain the root causes of the identified code 
section(s) that prevent it from producing the expected 
output for the specified input. 
Provide a step-by-step approach to fix the issues, ensuring 
the corrected code can handle all valid inputs correctly. 
Keep the fix steps concise for minor issues, but provide 
more detailed steps if major revisions are required.
AnalyzePrompt
Figure 6: The prompt template used to propose a repair strat-
egy. This is customized for Wrong Answer and is slightly dif-
ferent from the other types of execution feedback.
plan (Line 10). To align with the high-level planning of theNaviga-
tor, the Driver concatenates the problem description and current
solution plan together, making the prompt shown in Fig. 7. Existing
LLMs [14, 33] already have impressive abilities to comprehend the
context in prompts and convert solution plans expressed in natural
language into corresponding executable programs [22, 26, 46]. We
expect, but do not mandate, that the generated code is an exact
match to the solution plan. Incorrect implementation is tolerated
at this step, which would be recognized and refined in subsequent
iterations.
Perform code testing. Generating correct code is rarely a one-time
effort, and recent studies indicate that LLMs struggle to self-correct
their responses without external feedback [19, 44]. Therefore, we
follow previous works [7, 32] to introduce an executor that evalu-
ates the generated program C on the public test casesTv (Line 15).
We categorize the execution feedback into four types:
• Pass. It indicates that C successfully passes all public test
cases, i.e., satisfying that∀( Ii , Oi)∈T v , C(Ii) = Oi .
• Runtime Error. It indicates that the execution is terminated
prematurely due to unhandled exceptions or errors.
• Wrong Answer. It indicates that C gives unexpected outputs
in some cases, i.e., satisfying that∃( Ii , Oi)∈T v , C(Ii) , Oi .
This type takes precedence over Time Limit Exceeded.
• Time Limit Exceeded. It indicates that C fails to produce out-
puts within the specified time limit.
If the execution feedback is Pass, we will terminate the iterative
process and consider C as the final output (Line 16); Otherwise, the
Driver will deliver the current program and execution feedback
to the Navigator, which are used to direct the next iteration in
Step 5. Code testing marks the end of an iteration round, so the
iterative process will also be terminated after performing the r-th
test, outputting the last generated code (Line 17).
Repair buggy code. If the Navigatorassumes that the current
solution plan remains promising, the Driver will attempt to re-
pair the buggy code based on the given repair strategy (Line 14).
As shown in Fig. 8, the prompt for LLMs comprises the problem
description, the buggy code, the execution feedback, and the repair
strategy. The Driver aims to address the issues identified in the
repair strategy, such as logic errors and performance bottlenecks.
1323

[[page 6]]
ASE ’24, October 27-November 1, 2024, Sacramento, CA, USA Zhang et al.
system= """\
You are an experienced programmer.
You are given a coding problem: <<Problem Description>>
Please generate a Python code to fully solve the problem 
using the following solution: <<Solution Plan>>
CodePrompt
Figure 7: The prompt template used by the Driver to gener-
ate initial code guided by a new solution plan.
system= """\
You are an experienced programmer.
You are given a coding problem: <<Problem Description>>
A Python code solution for the problem: <<Buggy Code>>
However, when running the following input example, the code 
solution above failed to produce the expected output:
<<Execution Feedback>>
Please fix the code using the following approach:
<<Repair Strategy>>
RepairPrompt
Figure 8: The prompt template for repairing buggy code.
Similar to the code generation in Step 3, we do not claim that the
repair is a complete success, and the generated code can be further
refined in subsequent iterations.
Complexity analysis. The time complexity of Algorithm 1 is de-
termined by the number of iterations r and the cost of operations
within each iteration. Let c denote the constant factor representing
the cost of operations, such as model inference and code testing
within each iteration. Then, the overall time complexity of Pair-
Coder is O(r× c). Similarly, the space complexity of PairCoder
is O(r), since the Navigator needs to store the historical memory
Hc andHf , which grow linearly with the iteration count. While
the multi-plan exploration and iterative refinement introduce addi-
tional computational overhead, the superior accuracy ofPairCoder
in code generation justifies the trade-off in Sect. 4.
4 EXPERIMENTS AND RESULTS
We evaluate PairCoder by defining the following research ques-
tions (RQs) and outlining how we propose to answer them:
• RQ1. How does the accuracy of PairCoder in code
generation compare to other approaches? We aim to
evaluate the effectiveness of our PairCoder framework in
code generation compared to existing approaches. We con-
duct comprehensive experiments across diverse benchmarks
and foundation models.
• RQ2. How do critical hyperparameters impact the ac-
curacy of PairCoder? We thoroughly investigate the ef-
fect of iteration count on PairCoder compared to other
iterative refinement-based approaches, as well as the impact
of cluster number on PairCoder.
• RQ3. What are the individual contributions of the ma-
jor components in PairCoder? We aim to analyze the
effectiveness of two major components in PairCoder: multi-
plan exploration and feedback-driven refinement facilitated
by Navigator-Drivercollaboration. By disabling each com-
ponent in ablation studies, we isolate their effects and vali-
date their contributions to the overall accuracy.
• RQ4. What are the findings of cost and error analyses
for PairCoder? The cost analysis focuses on quantifying
Table 1: Benchmark statistics, including the number of pro-
gramming problems Q, the average number of public test
cases mv , and the average number of private test cases mh .
Features HumanEval MBPP CodeContest
Orig Plus Orig Plus Valid Test
#Q 164 164 500 399 117 165
Avg. mv 2.8 2.8 1.0 3.0 1.5 1.7
Avg. mh 9.6 764.1 3.1 108.5 202.9 202.1
the API calls and token consumption, providing insights into
the computational resources required to deploy PairCoder
in real-world scenarios. We also analyze the causes of errors
in failed test cases, indicating potential future improvements
in code generation.
4.1 Experiment Settings
Benchmarks. Following the prior works [7, 45], we conduct com-
prehensive experiments on five widely used benchmarks of code
generation: HumanEval [6], HumanEval+ [28], MBPP [4], MBPP+
[28], and CodeContest [27]. The statistics of these benchmarks are
shown in Table 1. HumanEval, MBPP, and their extended versions
(Plus) aim at simple function-level code generation, while Code-
Contest consists of competition-level programming problems. Both
the validation and test sets of CodeContest are considered.
Furthermore, we put effort into providing public test casesTv
for execution feedback. For the benchmarks [6, 27, 28] where public
test cases are provided in problem descriptions, we extractTv using
hand-written rules. For the benchmarks lacking public test cases in
the descriptions, we follow [7, 31, 54] by treating the first private
case asTv for MBPP, while for MBPP+, we use the original three
private cases before extension asTv .
Metrics. In line with previous works [7, 10, 22, 30], we use the
greedy pass@1 [6, 49] to assess the functional correctness of the
generated program. A program is regarded correct only if it passes
all private test casesTh. Compared to pass@K with multiple nucleus
sampling, the greedy pass@1 represents a more realistic scenario,
where developers are not required to review the correct one from
multiple solutions.
Comparative methods. We compare PairCoder with two main
categories of existing approaches for code generation. We briefly
describe them as follows.
Prompting techniques. This category focuses on prompts to
steer LLMs towards generating more accurate code solutions for
requirements. Notable approaches include:
• Direct prompting [6] takes the original requirements di-
rectly as inputs to prompt LLMs for code generation.
• Chain-of-Thought (CoT) prompting [46] elicits LLMs to
generate a chain of intermediate natural language reasoning
steps before producing the final code. We use the classical
CoT instruction “Let’s think step by step. " to guide LLMs in
zero-shot [24].
• SCoT prompting [25] asks LLMs using three basic program
structures (i.e., sequence, branch, and loop structures) to
1324

[[page 7]]
A Pair Programming Framework for Code Generation ASE ’24, October 27-November 1, 2024, Sacramento, CA, USA
build intermediate reasoning steps. Then, LLMs generate the
final code based on the structured CoT.
• Self-planning [22] consists of planning and implementa-
tion phases. In the planning phase, LLMs plan out the solu-
tion steps from the intent with few-shot demonstrations. In
the implementation phase, LLMs generate code step by step,
guided by the planned solution steps.
Refinement-based approaches. Approaches in this category
refine the generated code based on feedback, either from the LLM
itself or external sources, such as compilers and interpreters.
• Self-collaboration [10] enables multiple LLM agents to act
as distinct roles (i.e., analyst, coder, and tester) within a vir-
tual team. These roles interact and collaborate in a specified
manner to address code generation tasks.
• Self-repair [32] employs a feedback model to generate tex-
tual explanations for errors encountered during unit test
execution. The code model then uses these explanations to
repair the initial code.
• Self-debugging [7] teaches LLMs to perform iterative rub-
ber duck debugging by explaining the generated code line-
by-line with few-shot demonstrations.
• INTERVENOR [45] prompts LLMs to play two distinct
roles. The Code Teacher iteratively crafts the interactive
chain of repair based on compiler feedback, which guides
the Code Learner to generate or repair code.
• Reflexion [42] uses CoT prompting to generate its own
test suites. It then iteratively generates code and verbal self-
reflections based on this self-generated test feedback, which
guide subsequent implementations.
• LDB [54] segments programs into basic blocks and tracks
intermediate variable values during runtime execution for
iterative program repair.
• MetaGPT [16] is a multi-agent system that simulates a com-
plete software company by defining five roles and leveraging
human-like standard operating procedures.
Implementation details. We apply both open-source and closed-
source LLMs to PairCoder, including DeepSeek-Coder-Instruct
with 33B parameters [14] and GPT-3.5-Turbo (gpt-3.5-turbo-0613)
[33], where the maximum context window is 16K tokens for all
approaches. Moreover, the Navigator employs text-embedding-3-
large2 to vectorize the n = 15 sampled solution plans and divides
them into k = 3 clusters. Programs taking longer than 3 seconds to
execute on any test case are marked as Time Limit Exceeded. We
adopt a temperature of 0.8 to sample diverse solution plans and
use greedy decoding by setting the temperature to 0 in other steps.
For the comparative methods, we reproduce them according to the
source code or provided prompts; otherwise, we quote the results
directly from their papers [10, 16, 54]. Following the prior works
[7, 22, 30, 54], we use greedy decoding in the reproduced methods
unless otherwise specified. The maximum number of iterations r
is set to 10 for PairCoder and other iterative refinement-based
approaches, i.e., up to 10 times the code is generated or refined.
To ensure a fair comparison, all approaches are given identical
problem descriptions and public test cases for code generation.
2https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/embeddings
The generated code is then executed and evaluated in a consistent
Python 3.9 environment. This guarantees that the code generated
by different approaches will receive consistent external feedback,
thereby enabling unbiased and rigorous comparisons.
4.2 RQ1: Accuracy Comparison
The accuracy comparison results are presented in Table 2. Our
PairCoder achieves the best pass@1 scores across all benchmarks
and foundation models. In comparison to prompting LLMs directly,
PairCoder shows significant relative improvement of 12.00% to
162.43%. The prompting techniques would accumulate errors in
intermediate thoughts and single code generation, causing rela-
tively weak accuracy on code generation. CoT and SCoT prompting
are even worse than direct generation in some settings, which is
consistent with the findings of prior works [20, 26]. The poor perfor-
mance of Reflexion is likely due to the model generating incorrect
test cases, which leads to self-reflections based on false negative
evaluations of the code [42]. In contrast, other refinement-based ap-
proaches using provided public test cases achieve overall accuracy
gains, since the reliable test feedback can guide the refinement in
more promising directions. However, they are confined to a single
solving path, lacking the flexibility to explore alternative solution
plans when stuck. To overcome these limitations, PairCoder com-
bines the advantages of multi-plan exploration and feedback-driven
refinement.
Accuracy discrepancies across benchmarks are worth examining.
Most approaches perform well on the relatively simple HumanEval
and MBPP benchmarks. However, all approaches exhibit a substan-
tial accuracy decrease on the challenging CodeContest benchmark.
This reflects that current code generation techniques still have
room for improvement in tackling complex programming problems.
Note that the direct prompting with DeepSeek-Coder even outper-
forms that with GPT-3.5-Turbo on HumanEval, HumanEval+, and
CodeContest-test. We speculate this may be due to data leakage
issues, which will be further analyzed in Sect. 4.6.
We further evaluate PairCoder with one of the most advanced
LLMs, GPT-4 (gpt-4-0613) [34], and cite the results of several pow-
erful approaches [10, 16, 42] from their original papers. The com-
parison results are shown in Table 3. PairCoder still significantly
improves accuracy over direct prompting and outperforms existing
multi-agent approaches.
Answer to RQ1: PairCoder outperforms all baselines
across five benchmarks with two advanced LLMs. Com-
pared with direct generation, it gains remarkable relative
improvements ranging from 16.97% to 162.43% on GPT-
3.5-Turbo, and from 12.00% to 128.76% on DeepSeek-Coder.
The largest improvement is achieved on the most challeng-
ing CodeContest benchmark.
4.3
RQ2: Hyperparameter Impact
We investigate the impact of two critical hyperparameters: the
maximum number of iterations r and the number of clusters k.
1325

[[page 8]]
ASE ’24, October 27-November 1, 2024, Sacramento, CA, USA Zhang et al.
Table 2: Comparison of pass@1 with two LLMs on code generation benchmarks. “ †” denotes the value is directly cited from
the respective original work, and “-” denotes the empty result due to reproducibility issues.
Approaches
GPT-3.5-Turbo DeepSeek-Coder
HumanEval MBPP CodeContest HumanEval MBPP CodeContest
Orig Plus Orig Plus Valid Test Orig Plus Orig Plus Valid Test
Direct prompting 67.68 60.98 66.80 66.42 6.84 6.06 76.22 67.78 66.40 64.41 5.98 6.67
CoT prompting 68.90 62.80 69.00 67.17 5.13 5.45 77.27 68.90 67.60 67.67 5.45 6.67
SCoT prompting 68.29 61.59 62.60 61.40 5.98 4.24 73.17 65.85 61.80 60.15 4.27 6.06
Self-planning 72.56 64.63 69.60 67.67 7.69 6.06 74.39 68.90 65.80 68.17 6.84 9.09
Self-collaboration† 74.40 - 68.20 - - - - - - - - -
Self-repair 73.17 65.24 70.60 69.42 7.69 6.67 77.44 70.12 70.00 70.43 5.98 7.27
Self-debugging 78.05 72.56 72.80 70.43 9.40 11.52 79.27 73.78 72.20 71.12 8.55 13.33
INTERVENOR 77.44 69.51 73.40 71.93 8.55 9.09 79.88 72.56 72.60 72.43 7.69 10.30
Reflexion 69.57 - 67.76 - - - 81.99 - 74.31 - - -
LDB† 82.90 - 76.00 - - - - - - - - -
PairCoder (ours) 87.80 77.44 80.60 77.69 17.95 15.15 85.37 76.22 78.80 75.69 13.68 14.55
Relative improvement↑ 29.73% 26.99% 20.66% 16.97% 162.43% 150.00% 12.00% 12.45% 18.67% 17.51% 128.76% 118.14%
Table 3: Additional comparison of pass@1 with GPT-4 on
the original HumanEval and the sanitized MBPP [4].
Approaches HumanEval MBPP
Direct prompting 84.76 82.71
MetaGPT† 85.9 87.7
Reflexion† 91.0 77.1
Self-collaboration† 90.2 78.9
PairCoder 93.90 91.23
Iteration count impact. Given 1≤ r ≤ 10, we compare Pair-
Coder with two iterative refinement-based approaches, INTER-
VENOR and Self-debugging. We report the experimental results on
HumanEval and the test set of CodeContest with GPT-3.5-Turbo.
Fig. 9 depicts the line plots that show the variation in the pass@1
metric with increasing iteration count for different approaches.
As the iteration count increases, all approaches exhibit accuracy
improvements, but the extent of these improvements varies. On
HumanEval, while Self-debugging and INTERVENOR show modest
gains of around 10 percentage points in pass@1 scores after 10 itera-
tions, PairCoder shows a substantially larger improvement of over
21 points. A similar pattern emerges on CodeContest-test, where
PairCoder’s pass@1 score raises by nearly 10 points, outpacing
the limited improvements of the two baselines.
Notably, Self-debugging and INTERVENOR appear to reach an
accuracy plateau after a certain number of iterations, e.g., r≥ 5
on CodeContest-test. This observation aligns with prior findings
[7, 54]. In contrast, PairCoder consistently maintains an upward
trajectory across all iteration counts on both benchmarks, suggest-
ing its ability to leverage more iterations for continuous accuracy
improvement. Furthermore, we examine whenPairCodertypically
switches to a new solution plan during iterative refinement. Fig. 9
also labels the average iteration counts at which PairCoder tran-
sitions to its next plan, denoted by the colored demarcations, e.g.,
PairCoder Self-debugging INTERVENOR
5
7
9
11
13
15
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
pass@1 (%)
# iterations
65
70
75
80
85
90
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
pass@1 (%)
# iterations
4.5 7.43.8 6.7
(a) HumanEval (b) CodeContest-test
Figure 9: Accuracy changes with the maximum number
of iterations, which evaluates PairCoder, Self-debugging,
and INTERVENOR using GPT-3.5-Turbo on (a) HumanEval
and (b) CodeContest-test benchmarks. The colored demar-
cations denote the average iteration counts at which Pair-
Coder transitions to its next plan.
3.8 and 6.7 on HumanEval. They also reflect the average count of
code repairs under each plan. We observe that the demarcations
roughly align with the iteration counts where Self-debugging and
INTERVENOR appear to plateau. This correlation suggests that
multi-plan exploration based on the long-term memory module en-
ables PairCoder to effectively identify and abandon unpromising
plans. Within the same maximum number of iterations, PairCoder
can timely explore multiple candidate plans based on execution
feedback, achieving superior accuracy by expanding the search
space away from local optima.
Cluster number impact. To investigate the impact of the cluster
number k on PairCoder, we vary k from 1 to 5. We also report the
results on HumanEval and CodeContest-test with GPT-3.5-Turbo.
As shown in Fig. 10, the line plots reflect the changes in pass@1,
and the bar charts are for the proportion of problems where all k
plans are attempted. As the cluster number k increases, the pass@1
score of PairCoder improves but reaches a bottleneck after k = 3.
1326

[[page 9]]
A Pair Programming Framework for Code Generation ASE ’24, October 27-November 1, 2024, Sacramento, CA, USA
proportion pass@1
65
75
85
95
0
20
40
60
80
100
1 2 3 4 5
pass@1 (%)
proportion (%)
# cluster numbers k
5
10
15
20
25
0
20
40
60
80
100
1 2 3 4 5
pass@1 (%)
proportion (%)
# cluster numbers k
(a) HumanEval (b) CodeContest-test
pass@1 proportion
Figure 10: Accuracy changes with the number of clusters,
which evaluates PairCoder by pass@1 score and the pro-
portion of problems where all k plans are attempted.
Intuitively, a larger k can bring more candidate solution plans for
iterative refinement, leading to a positive correlation with the accu-
racy of PairCoder. However, only 4.88% and 14.55% of the problems
in HumanEval and CodeContest-test, respectively, attempt more
than three plans. This is because the iterative process would stop
early due to passing public test cases or reaching the maximum
number of iterations, resulting in a plateau in accuracy. It suggests
that a moderate cluster number k = 3 appears to be optimal for
PairCoder with the maximum number of iterations r = 10. We
think that a larger iteration count and cluster number may bring
more improvement for PairCoder, but it is a trade-off between
effectiveness and cost.
The proportions of attempting all k plans differ significantly
between the two benchmarks. For the simpler HumanEval, only
21.34% of problems attempt the second plan with k = 2, while
this value is 82.42% for CodeContest-test. CodeContest consists of
competition-level programming problems, where an initial solution
plan is likely to fail to solve the problem. This observation on
complex problems supports our design for multi-plan exploration.
Answer to RQ2: The iteration count and cluster num-
ber significantly affect the accuracy of PairCoder. The
increase in iteration count brings a substantial and con-
sistent improvement to PairCoder versus the baselines.
With a maximum of 10 iteration rounds, the optimal cluster
number is 3, which is a trade-off for cost efficiency.
4.4
RQ3: Ablation Study
To analyze the individual effectiveness of multi-plan exploration
and feedback-driven refinement inPairCoder, we conduct ablation
studies in Table 4. “w/o MP” disables the capability of multi-plan
exploration, making the Navigator always choose to repair the
current code rather than adjust the solution plan in Step 5. “w/o
RF” is the opposite, which disables the feedback-driven refinement
process, making the Navigator always choose to attempt another
candidate plan. The Driver’s behavior changes according to differ-
ent directions of the Navigator.
The ablation results demonstrate that the complete PairCoder
achieves the best accuracy, and both multi-plan exploration and
feedback-driven refinement play a positive role in code generation.
Table 4: Ablation results for multi-plan exploration (MP)
and feedback-driven refinement (RF).
Mo
dels V
ariants HumanEval
MBPP CodeContest
Orig
Plus Orig Plus Valid Test
GPT
-3.5
-Turbo
P
airCoder 87.80
77.44 80.60 77.69 17.95 15.15
w/o
MP 81.10
73.78 76.20 71.68 11.97 10.91
w/o
RF 74.39
68.29 72.20 68.92 8.55 9.69
De
epSeek
-Coder
P
airCoder 85.37
76.22 78.80 75.69 13.68 14.55
w/o
MP 78.86
73.17 73.40 71.93 9.40 12.12
w/o
RF 75.61
69.51 68.60 67.92 7.69 10.91
Multi-plan exploration effectively expands the search space away
from local optima, leading to considerable improvements. Feedback-
driven refinement brings more significant improvement than multi-
plan exploration across all benchmarks and foundation models. It
indicates that even with a proper solution plan, advanced LLMs
still struggle to generate the correct code in one attempt. The two
components are more effective for complex problems, yielding
substantial relative improvements of 38.86% and 56.35% using GPT-
3.5-Turbo on CodeContest-test, respectively, compared to 8.26% and
18.03% on the simpler HumanEval. This is in line with real-world
programming practices, where complex problem-solving requires
more exploration and refinement.
Answ
er to RQ3: Both multi-plan exploration and
feedback-driven refinement contribute to PairCoder for
code generation. They bring more significant improve-
ments for complex problems in CodeContest, which is in
line with real-world programming practices.
4.5
RQ4: Cost and Error Analyses
For this RQ, we further investigate the usage of PairCoder.
Cost analysis. We perform a cost analysis for PairCoder and
all reproduced approaches on HumanEval, MBPP, and the test set
of CodeContest. The cost is measured by two key metrics: the
average number of API calls per problem and the average token
consumption per problem. For each approach, we record its API
requests and responses using GPT-3.5-Turbo. This provides the
number of API calls and token consumption, including input tokens
and generated output tokens of LLMs. Note that we count API calls
to assess the efficiency in code generation, since the time spent is
susceptible to uncontrollable factors such as network fluctuation.
For the fairness of comparison, we extend the comparative meth-
ods to conduct additional experiments using GPT-3.5-turbo: (i)
For prompting techniques, we repeat sampling with a tempera-
ture of 0.8 until the generated code passes all public test cases or
10 attempts are reached. (ii) For Self-repair, we also allow up to
10 iterations. This setup ensures that these approaches have the
same maximum number of attempts as the iterative approaches in
Sect. 4.1. As shown in Table 5, the results demonstrate that sim-
ple repetitive sampling can indeed enhance these approaches, but
PairCoder remains dominant. It confirms that the effectiveness of
PairCoder beyond merely increased computation.
1327

[[page 10]]
ASE ’24, October 27-November 1, 2024, Sacramento, CA, USA Zhang et al.
Table 5: Accuracy comparison of prompting approaches and
Self-repair using GPT-3.5-Turbo with up to 10 iterations. Hu-
manEval and MBPP are the original versions (the same be-
low unless otherwise specified).
Approaches HumanEval MBPP CodeContest-test
Direct prompting 75.61 72.80 9.09
CoT prompting 76.83 73.00 7.88
SCoT prompting 75.61 73.94 8.48
Self-planning 79.27 76.36 10.90
Self-repair 78.65 75.00 9.09
PairCoder 87.80 80.60 15.15
Table 6: Average number of API calls and tokens (in thou-
sands) using GPT-3.5-Turbo. Note that all approaches are al-
lowed up to 10 iterations.
Approaches HumanEval MBPP CodeContest-test
API Token API Token API Token
Direct prompting 2.43 1.19 2.31 1.23 8.73 9.79
CoT prompting 2.43 1.36 2.37 1.41 8.62 10.16
SCoT prompting 4.63 4.46 4.61 4.49 17.30 26.57
Self-planning 4.16 3.27 4.67 2.78 17.02 20.03
Self-repair 2.37 2.40 2.36 2.02 8.85 19.82
Reflexion 8.47 9.68 9.58 10.28 - -
LDB† - 23 - - - -
Self-debugging 2.74 7.74 2.55 6.47 9.07 38.40
INTERVENOR 3.85 2.05 3.77 1.83 17.06 13.72
PairCoder 5.28 5.98 5.37 5.09 17.56 24.06
Table 6 presents the cost comparison results. Among prompt-
ing techniques, Direct and CoT prompting generally have lower
costs compared to other approaches, while SCoT and Self-planning
demonstrate higher costs due to their complex prompting strate-
gies. For refinement-based approached, Reflexion shows high API
call and token consumption on both benchmarks. LDB, reported
only for HumanEval, demonstrates the highest token consump-
tion among all approaches. Collaborating the Navigatorand the
Driver, PairCoder requires more API calls than most approaches
except Reflexion. Nevertheless, PairCoder maintains moderate
token consumption, particularly when compared to LDB, Reflexion,
and Self-debugging across different benchmarks. Furthermore, we
observe that all approaches spend higher cost on the challenging
CodeContest-test than simpler benchmarks, due to the fact that
complex problem-solving requires more model interactions. De-
spite moderate cost increase, PairCoder significantly improves
accuracy across all settings (as shown in Tables 2 and 5), justify-
ing the minor increase cost. Overall, PairCoder achieves better
accuracy in code generation while maintaining reasonable costs
compared to existing approaches.
Error analysis. We conduct a detailed analysis of the error types
encountered by PairCoder using GPT-3.5-Turbo on three bench-
marks. Table 7 presents the analysis results. Overall, Wrong Answer
Table 7: Analysis of passes on public test cases Tv , private
test cases Th , and specific error types on Th , i.e., Runtime
Error (RE), Wrong Answer (W A), and Time Limit Exceeded
(TLE).
Benchmarks Pass Tv Pass Th
Not pass Th
RE WA TLE
HumanEval 95.73% 87.80% 0 11.59% 0.61%
MBPP 93.20% 80.60% 0.80% 18.60% 0
CodeContest-test 21.21% 15.15% 16.36% 60.00% 8.48%
is the most common error type, indicating that generating function-
ally correct programs remains a key challenge for code generation.
On the relatively simple HumanEval and MBPP benchmarks, Pair-
Coder solves over 80% programming problems, where Runtime
Error and Time Limit Exceeded are rare. However, on the challeng-
ing CodeContest-test benchmark, the accuracy largely decreases.
Although the causes of errors are still dominated by Wrong An-
swer, there is a notable increase in Runtime Error and Time Limit
Exceeded. The analysis results are consistent with realistic program-
ming practices, where simple problems generally do not encounter
unexpected exceptions and efficiency issues. We emphasize the
urgent need to further improve the functional correctness of code
generation, and also focus on the efficiency and robustness for
complex programming problems.
Since only the public test cases Tv are visible during the code
generation and refinement stages, their quality directly impacts the
final performance. On HumanEval and MBPP, the pass rates on
public test cases are over 93%, and 91.72% (87.80/95.73) and 86.48%
(80.60/93.20) of them also pass the private test casesTh, respectively.
However, on the challenging CodeContest-test, the pass rate on Tv
is only 21.21%, and 71.43% (15.15/21.21) of them eventually pass Th.
As with code testing, public test cases can provide real feedback
from the executor, revealing the vulnerability of a program to spe-
cific inputs. Referring to Table 1, the low coverage of public test
cases limits the ability of PairCoder to facilitate code generation.
Based on the above findings, the evolution of code generation
approaches and the expansion of public test cases are both crucial
and orthogonal. PairCoder seems powerful enough for simple
programming problems, and broader public test cases such as edge
cases would bring the accuracy closer to that on the current Tv .
For complex problems, it is imperative to enhance the reasoning
and programming capabilities inherent in LLMs. Besides, retrieval
augmentation [20, 38, 43] and test case generation [ 5, 39, 42, 51]
are potential future improvements in code generation.
Answ
er to RQ4: Compared to existing approaches, Pair-
Coder achieves superior accuracy with comparable and
reasonable cost. Wrong Answer is the main error cause, yet
efficiency and robustness also deserve concerns for com-
plex problems. In addition to enhancing code generation,
test case generation is a promising orthogonal direction.
1328

[[page 11]]
A Pair Programming Framework for Code Generation ASE ’24, October 27-November 1, 2024, Sacramento, CA, USA
4.6 Threats to Validity
The first potential threat relates to the generalizability of our eval-
uation. To mitigate this concern, we carefully select five widely
used and representative benchmarks and both closed-source and
open-source LLMs for our experiments. Under all these settings,
consistently superior accuracy demonstrates the effectiveness of
PairCoder. In future work, we plan to further validate the gen-
eralizability of PairCoder across a broader range of LLMs and
benchmarks, such as multilingual code generation [3, 53].
Another potential threat is data leakage in pre-trained LLMs.
For example, DeepSeek-Coder was released after benchmarks like
HumanEval were collected, raising the possibility that benchmark
samples were unintentionally included in its pre-training corpus.
However, any such leakage would affect all baselines equally since
they use the same model. Therefore, while leakage may inflate
overall accuracy, it does not affect the fairness of our comparative
analysis and the relative gains of PairCoder, which consistently
shows the largest improvements across all settings.
The third potential threat arises from the zero-shot prompting
used in our experiments. Although zero-shot prompting achieves
superior accuracy while largely reducing token consumption, we
do not rule out the possibility that other instructions or few-shot
demonstrations could further improve performance. However, the
selection of demonstrations for in-context learning poses a signifi-
cant challenge, which can greatly influence the behavior of LLMs
[12]. We leave the exploration of effective few-shot prompting
techniques in future work.
5 RELATED WORK
Recent advancements in LLMs have shown remarkable capabili-
ties in code generation tasks by training on vast amounts of code-
containing corpora. Open-source models like InCoder [11], Code
Llama [40], WizardCoder [29], and DeepSeek-Coder [14], have de-
picted performance that matches or even surpasses closed-source
commercial models like ChatGPT [33], GPT-4 [34], and Claude [1].
This development has significantly improved software productivity
[23, 35] and profoundly affected the progress of intelligent software
engineering, attracting substantial work focused on enhancing the
code generation capabilities of LLMs.
A key focus is on prompting techniques that guide LLMs to
produce intermediate reasoning steps from problem descriptions.
Prompting techniques have been proven to effectively improve
the code generation performance of LLMs in a plug-and-play man-
ner [18, 22, 25, 26, 46]. SCoT [25] and Self-planning [ 22] design
different formats of intermediate steps, while BRAINSTORM [26]
trains a neural ranker model to select the best thought. They lever-
age prompting techniques to stimulate the reasoning capabilities
of LLMs, guiding them to generate more accurate code. However,
generating correct code is rarely a one-time effort [ 7]. Some ap-
proaches [5, 21, 27, 31, 41, 52] first generate multiple code solutions
and then filter or rank them based on consistency or execution
results to obtain the final code. They require substantial computa-
tional resources to generate code candidates, which is inefficient
and orthogonal to our framework.
Another line of work focuses on refining the generated code
[7, 32, 45, 50, 54], where the feedback is obtained from LLMs them-
selves or external sources. Self-edit [50] trains a fault-aware code
editor that employs error messages to refine the generated code.
Self-repair [32] investigates the effects of leveraging feedback from
diverse sources for code repair, such as humans or LLMs. Self-
debugging [7] utilizes explanations generated by LLMs to repair
code. INTERVENOR [45] emulates the interactive code repair pro-
cesses based on compiler feedback. LDB [ 54] mainly focuses on
debugging by leveraging runtime execution information, which is
orthogonal to our work. It can be integrated into our PairCoder
framework to enhance code repair in Steps 5 and 6. We include
competitive baselines in our experiments [7, 22, 25, 32, 45, 54], as
shown in Table 2, exclude Self-Edit [50] due to its additional training
requirements.
Additionally, several works [ 10, 16, 37] employ collaborative
LLM agents to simulate the full software development lifecycle
such as the waterfall model [36], spanning from high-level tasks
like requirements analysis and architecture design [16, 37], to low-
level roles like coder and tester [10]. A notable example is MetaGPT
[16]. In contrast, our PairCoder focuses specifically on the critical
coding stage, essentially corresponding to the Engineer agent in
MetaGPT. Instead of attempting to simulate the entire develop-
ment lifecycle, PairCoder uses collaborative agents to emulate
pair programming, a well-established and proven software practice
directly targeting efficient and high-quality code generation. While
differing in scope, our work complements those broader develop-
ment lifecycle simulations by concentrating on the essential coding
component.
6 CONCLUSION
In this paper, we propose the PairCoder framework, which is the
first to adapt pair programming practices into LLM-based code gen-
eration. It comprises a Navigator agent for high-level planning
and a Driver agent for specific implementation, collaborating on
code generation via multi-plan exploration and feedback-driven
refinement. The Navigatorexplores multiple plans based on execu-
tion feedback from the Driver and historical memory. The Driver
follows the guidance of the Navigator to undertake initial code
generation, code testing, and refinement. Extensive experiments
on diverse benchmarks and LLMs demonstrate the superior accu-
racy of PairCoder. Our work represents a promising step towards
leveraging collaborative agents to facilitate intelligent software
development. In future work, we plan to integrate human feedback
or external knowledge sources to further enhance the high-level
planning capabilities of the Navigator. We will also explore ap-
plications of the PairCoder framework to other domains beyond
code generation.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
We thank the anonymous reviewers for their valuable comments.
This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foun-
dation of China (No. 62272219) and the Collaborative Innovation
Center of Novel Software Technology & Industrialization.
1329

[[page 12]]
ASE ’24, October 27-November 1, 2024, Sacramento, CA, USA Zhang et al.
REFERENCES
[1] Anthropic. 2023. Meet Claude. https://www.anthropic.com/claude/. Accessed
May 30, 2024.
[2] David Arthur and Sergei Vassilvitskii. 2007. k-means++: The Advantages of
Careful Seeding. In SODA. SIAM, New Orleans, LA, USA, 1027–1035.
[3] Ben Athiwaratkun, Sanjay Krishna Gouda, Zijian Wang, Xiaopeng Li, Yuchen
Tian, Ming Tan, Wasi Uddin Ahmad, Shiqi Wang, Qing Sun, Mingyue Shang,
Sujan Kumar Gonugondla, Hantian Ding, Varun Kumar, Nathan Fulton, Arash
Farahani, Siddhartha Jain, Robert Giaquinto, Haifeng Qian, Murali Krishna Ra-
manathan, and Ramesh Nallapati. 2023. Multi-lingual Evaluation of Code Gener-
ation Models. In ICLR. OpenReview.net, Kigali, Rwanda, 1–19.
[4] Jacob Austin, Augustus Odena, Maxwell I. Nye, Maarten Bosma, Henryk
Michalewski, David Dohan, Ellen Jiang, Carrie J. Cai, Michael Terry, Quoc V. Le,
and Charles Sutton. 2021. Program Synthesis with Large Language Models. CoRR
2108.07732 (2021), 1–34.
[5] Bei Chen, Fengji Zhang, Anh Nguyen, Daoguang Zan, Zeqi Lin, Jian-Guang Lou,
and Weizhu Chen. 2023. CodeT: Code Generation with Generated Tests. In ICLR.
OpenReview.net, Kigali, Rwanda, 1–19.
[6] Mark Chen, Jerry Tworek, Heewoo Jun, Qiming Yuan, Henrique Pondé de
Oliveira Pinto, Jared Kaplan, Harrison Edwards, Yuri Burda, Nicholas Joseph,
Greg Brockman, Alex Ray, Raul Puri, Gretchen Krueger, Michael Petrov, Heidy
Khlaaf, Girish Sastry, Pamela Mishkin, Brooke Chan, Scott Gray, Nick Ryder,
Mikhail Pavlov, Alethea Power, Lukasz Kaiser, Mohammad Bavarian, Clemens
Winter, Philippe Tillet, Felipe Petroski Such, Dave Cummings, Matthias Plappert,
Fotios Chantzis, Elizabeth Barnes, Ariel Herbert-Voss, William Hebgen Guss,
Alex Nichol, Alex Paino, Nikolas Tezak, Jie Tang, Igor Babuschkin, Suchir Bal-
aji, Shantanu Jain, William Saunders, Christopher Hesse, Andrew N. Carr, Jan
Leike, Joshua Achiam, Vedant Misra, Evan Morikawa, Alec Radford, Matthew
Knight, Miles Brundage, Mira Murati, Katie Mayer, Peter Welinder, Bob McGrew,
Dario Amodei, Sam McCandlish, Ilya Sutskever, and Wojciech Zaremba. 2021.
Evaluating Large Language Models Trained on Code. CoRR 2107.03374 (2021),
1–35.
[7] Xinyun Chen, Maxwell Lin, Nathanael Schärli, and Denny Zhou. 2024. Teaching
Large Language Models to Self-Debug. InICLR. OpenReview.net, Vienna, Austria,
1–80.
[8] Zhoujun Cheng, Jungo Kasai, and Tao Yu. 2023. Batch Prompting: Efficient
Inference with Large Language Model APIs. In EMNLP. ACL, Singapore, 792–
810.
[9] Yinlin Deng, Chunqiu Steven Xia, Chenyuan Yang, Shizhuo Dylan Zhang, Shu-
jing Yang, and Lingming Zhang. 2024. Large Language Models are Edge-Case
Generators: Crafting Unusual Programs for Fuzzing Deep Learning Libraries. In
ICSE. IEEE/ACM, Lisbon, Portugal, 70:1–70:13.
[10] Yihong Dong, Xue Jiang, Zhi Jin, and Ge Li. 2023. Self-collaboration Code
Generation via ChatGPT. CoRR 2304.07590 (2023), 1–38.
[11] Daniel Fried, Armen Aghajanyan, Jessy Lin, Sida Wang, Eric Wallace, Freda Shi,
Ruiqi Zhong, Scott Yih, Luke Zettlemoyer, and Mike Lewis. 2023. InCoder: A
Generative Model for Code Infilling and Synthesis. In ICLR. OpenReview.net,
Kigali, Rwanda, 1–26.
[12] Shuzheng Gao, Xin-Cheng Wen, Cuiyun Gao, Wenxuan Wang, Hongyu Zhang,
and Michael R. Lyu. 2023. What Makes Good In-Context Demonstrations for Code
Intelligence Tasks with LLMs?. In ASE. IEEE, Kirchberg, Luxembourg, 761–773.
[13] Mingyang Geng, Shangwen Wang, Dezun Dong, Haotian Wang, Ge Li, Zhi Jin,
Xiaoguang Mao, and Xiangke Liao. 2024. Large Language Models are Few-Shot
Summarizers: Multi-Intent Comment Generation via In-Context Learning. In
ICSE. IEEE/ACM, Lisbon, Portugal, 39:1–39:13.
[14] Daya Guo, Qihao Zhu, Dejian Yang, Zhenda Xie, Kai Dong, Wentao Zhang, Guant-
ing Chen, Xiao Bi, Y. Wu, Y. K. Li, Fuli Luo, Yingfei Xiong, and Wenfeng Liang.
2024. DeepSeek-Coder: When the Large Language Model Meets Programming -
The Rise of Code Intelligence. CoRR 2401.14196 (2024), 1–23.
[15] Ari Holtzman, Jan Buys, Li Du, Maxwell Forbes, and Yejin Choi. 2020. The
Curious Case of Neural Text Degeneration. In ICLR. OpenReview.net, Addis
Ababa, Ethiopia, 1–16.
[16] Sirui Hong, Mingchen Zhuge, Jonathan Chen, Xiawu Zheng, Yuheng Cheng,
Ceyao Zhang, Jinlin Wang, Zili Wang, Steven Ka Shing Yau, Zijuan Lin, Liyang
Zhou, Chenyu Ran, Lingfeng Xiao, Chenglin Wu, and Jürgen Schmidhuber. 2024.
MetaGPT: Meta Programming for A Multi-Agent Collaborative Framework. In
ICLR. OpenReview.net, Vienna, Austria, 1–26.
[17] William E. Howden. 1978. Theoretical and Empirical Studies of Program Testing.
IEEE Trans. Softw. 4 (1978), 293–298.
[18] Dong Huang, Qingwen Bu, Yuhao Qing, and Heming Cui. 2023. CodeCoT:
Tackling Code Syntax Errors in CoT Reasoning for Code Generation. CoRR
2308.08784 (2023), 1–20.
[19] Jie Huang, Xinyun Chen, Swaroop Mishra, Huaixiu Steven Zheng, Adams Wei
Yu, Xinying Song, and Denny Zhou. 2024. Large Language Models Cannot
Self-Correct Reasoning Yet. In ICLR. OpenReview.net, Kigali, Rwanda, 1–17.
[20] Tao Huang, Zhihong Sun, Zhi Jin, Ge Li, and Chen Lyu. 2024. Knowledge-Aware
Code Generation with Large Language Models. In ICPC. IEEE/ACM, Lisbon,
Portugal, 52–63.
[21] Jeevana Priya Inala, Chenglong Wang, Mei Yang, Andrés Codas, Mark Encar-
nación, Shuvendu K. Lahiri, Madanlal Musuvathi, and Jianfeng Gao. 2022. Fault-
Aware Neural Code Rankers. In NeurIPS. Curran Associates, Inc., New Orleans,
LA, USA, 13419–13432.
[22] Xue Jiang, Yihong Dong, Lecheng Wang, Qiwei Shang, and Ge Li. 2023. Self-
planning Code Generation with Large Language Model. CoRR 2303.06689 (2023),
1–19.
[23] Majeed Kazemitabaar, Justin Chow, Carl Ka To Ma, Barbara J. Ericson, David
Weintrop, and Tovi Grossman. 2023. Studying the effect of AI Code Generators
on Supporting Novice Learners in Introductory Programming. In CHI. ACM,
Hamburg, Germany, 455:1–455:23.
[24] Takeshi Kojima, Shixiang Shane Gu, Machel Reid, Yutaka Matsuo, and Yusuke
Iwasawa. 2022. Large Language Models are Zero-Shot Reasoners. In NeurIPS.
Curran Associates, Inc., New Orleans, LA, USA, 22199–22213.
[25] Jia Li, Ge Li, Yongmin Li, and Zhi Jin. 2023. Structured Chain-of-Thought Prompt-
ing for Code Generation. CoRR 2305.06599 (2023), 1–12.
[26] Xin-Ye Li, Jiang-Tian Xue, Zheng Xie, and Ming Li. 2023. Think Outside the
Code: Brainstorming Boosts Large Language Models in Code Generation. CoRR
2305.10679 (2023), 1–13.
[27] Yujia Li, David Choi, Junyoung Chung, Nate Kushman, Julian Schrittwieser, Rémi
Leblond, Tom Eccles, James Keeling, Felix Gimeno, Agustin Dal Lago, Thomas
Hubert, Peter Choy, Cyprien de Masson d’Autume, Igor Babuschkin, Xinyun
Chen, Po-Sen Huang, Johannes Welbl, Sven Gowal, Alexey Cherepanov, James
Molloy, Daniel J. Mankowitz, Esme Sutherland Robson, Pushmeet Kohli, Nando
de Freitas, Koray Kavukcuoglu, and Oriol Vinyals. 2022. Competition-Level Code
Generation with AlphaCode. Science 378 (2022), 1092–1097.
[28] Jiawei Liu, Chunqiu Steven Xia, Yuyao Wang, and Lingming Zhang. 2023. Is
Your Code Generated by ChatGPT Really Correct? Rigorous Evaluation of Large
Language Models for Code Generation. In NeurIPS. Curran Associates, Inc., New
Orleans, LA, USA, 21558–21572.
[29] Ziyang Luo, Can Xu, Pu Zhao, Qingfeng Sun, Xiubo Geng, Wenxiang Hu,
Chongyang Tao, Jing Ma, Qingwei Lin, and Daxin Jiang. 2024. WizardCoder:
Empowering Code Large Language Models with Evol-Instruct. In ICLR. OpenRe-
view.net, Kigali, Rwanda, 1–21.
[30] Fangwen Mu, Lin Shi, Song Wang, Zhuohao Yu, Binquan Zhang, Chenxue Wang,
Shichao Liu, and Qing Wang. 2023. ClarifyGPT: Empowering LLM-based Code
Generation with Intention Clarification. CoRR 2310.10996 (2023), 1–21.
[31] Ansong Ni, Srini Iyer, Dragomir Radev, Veselin Stoyanov, Wen tau Yih, Sida
Wang, and Xi Victoria Lin. 2023. LEVER: Learning to Verify Language-to-Code
Generation with Execution. In ICML. PMLR, Honolulu, HI, USA, 26106–26128.
[32] Theo X. Olausson, Jeevana Priya Inala, Chenglong Wang, Jianfeng Gao, and
Armando Solar-Lezama. 2024. Is Self-Repair a Silver Bullet for Code Generation?.
In ICLR. OpenReview.net, Vienna, Austria, 1–49.
[33] OpenAI. 2022. Introducing ChatGPT. https://openai.com/index/chatgpt/. Ac-
cessed May 30, 2024.
[34] OpenAI. 2023. GPT-4 Technical Report. CoRR 2303.08774 (2023), 1–100.
[35] Sida Peng, Eirini Kalliamvakou, Peter Cihon, and Mert Demirer. 2023. The Impact
of AI on Developer Productivity: Evidence from GitHub Copilot.CoRR 2302.06590
(2023), 1–19.
[36] Kai Petersen, Claes Wohlin, and Dejan Baca. 2009. The Waterfall Model in
Large-Scale Development. In PROFES. Springer, Oulu, Finland, 386–400.
[37] Chen Qian, Wei Liu, Hongzhang Liu, Nuo Chen, Yufan Dang, Jiahao Li, Cheng
Yang, Weize Chen, Yusheng Su, Xin Cong, Juyuan Xu, Dahai Li, Zhiyuan Liu, and
Maosong Sun. 2024. ChatDev: Communicative Agents for Software Development.
In ACL. ACL, Bangkok, Thailand, 15174–15186.
[38] Xiaoxue Ren, Xinyuan Ye, Dehai Zhao, Zhenchang Xing, and Xiaohu Yang. 2023.
From Misuse to Mastery: Enhancing Code Generation with Knowledge-Driven
AI Chaining. In ASE. IEEE/ACM, Luxembourg, 976–987.
[39] Tal Ridnik, Dedy Kredo, and Itamar Friedman. 2024. Code Generation with
AlphaCodium: From Prompt Engineering to Flow Engineering. CoRR 2401.08500
(2024), 1–10.
[40] Baptiste Rozière, Jonas Gehring, Fabian Gloeckle, Sten Sootla, Itai Gat, Xi-
aoqing Ellen Tan, Yossi Adi, Jingyu Liu, Tal Remez, Jérémy Rapin, Artyom
Kozhevnikov, Ivan Evtimov, Joanna Bitton, Manish Bhatt, Cristian Canton-Ferrer,
Aaron Grattafiori, Wenhan Xiong, Alexandre Défossez, Jade Copet, Faisal Azhar,
Hugo Touvron, Louis Martin, Nicolas Usunier, Thomas Scialom, and Gabriel Syn-
naeve. 2023. Code Llama: Open Foundation Models for Code. CoRR 2308.12950
(2023), 1–48.
[41] Freda Shi, Daniel Fried, Marjan Ghazvininejad, Luke Zettlemoyer, and Sida I.
Wang. 2022. Natural Language to Code Translation with Execution. In EMNLP.
ACL, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, 3533–3546.
[42] Noah Shinn, Federico Cassano, Ashwin Gopinath, Karthik Narasimhan, and
Shunyu Yao. 2023. Reflexion: Language Agents with Verbal Reinforcement
Learning. In NeurIPS, Vol. 36. Curran Associates, Inc., New Orleans, LA, USA,
8634–8652.
[43] Hongjin Su, Shuyang Jiang, Yuhang Lai, Haoyuan Wu, Boao Shi, Che Liu, Qian
Liu, and Tao Yu. 2024. ARKS: Active Retrieval in Knowledge Soup for Code
1330

[[page 13]]
A Pair Programming Framework for Code Generation ASE ’24, October 27-November 1, 2024, Sacramento, CA, USA
Generation. CoRR 2402.12317 (2024), 1–16.
[44] Karthik Valmeekam, Matthew Marquez, and Subbarao Kambhampati. 2023. Can
Large Language Models Really Improve by Self-critiquing Their Own Plans?
CoRR 2310.08118 (2023), 1–6.
[45] Hanbin Wang, Zhenghao Liu, Shuo Wang, Ganqu Cui, Ning Ding, Zhiyuan Liu,
and Ge Yu. 2024. INTERVENOR: Prompt the Coding Ability of Large Language
Models with the Interactive Chain of Repairing. InFindings of ACL. ACL, Bangkok,
Thailand, 2081–2107.
[46] Jason Wei, Xuezhi Wang, Dale Schuurmans, Maarten Bosma, brian ichter, Fei
Xia, Ed Chi, Quoc V Le, and Denny Zhou. 2022. Chain-of-Thought Prompting
Elicits Reasoning in Large Language Models. In NeurIPS. Curran Associates, Inc.,
New Orleans, LA, USA, 24824–24837.
[47] L. Williams. 2001. Integrating pair programming into a software development
process. In 14th Conference on Software Engineering Education and Training. ‘In
search of a software engineering profession’ (Cat. No. PR01059). IEEE, Charlotte,
NC, USA, 27–36.
[48] Zhen Yang, Fang Liu, Zhongxing Yu, Jacky Wai Keung, Jia Li, Shuo Liu, Yifan
Hong, Xiaoxue Ma, Zhi Jin, and Ge Li. 2024. Exploring and Unleashing the Power
of Large Language Models in Automated Code Translation. Proc. ACM Softw.
Eng. 1, FSE (2024), 1585–1608.
[49] Hao Yu, Bo Shen, Dezhi Ran, Jiaxin Zhang, Qi Zhang, Yuchi Ma, Guangtai Liang,
Ying Li, Qianxiang Wang, and Tao Xie. 2024. CoderEval: A Benchmark of Prag-
matic Code Generation with Generative Pre-trained Models. In ICSE. ACM, Lis-
bon, Portugal, 37:1–37:12.
[50] Kechi Zhang, Zhuo Li, Jia Li, Ge Li, and Zhi Jin. 2023. Self-Edit: Fault-Aware
Code Editor for Code Generation. In ACL. ACL, Toronto, Canada, 769–787.
[51] Kexun Zhang, Danqing Wang, Jingtao Xia, William Yang Wang, and Lei Li. 2023.
ALGO: Synthesizing Algorithmic Programs with LLM-generated Oracle Verifiers.
In NeurIPS. Curran Associates Inc., New Orleans, LA, USA, 54769–54784.
[52] Tianyi Zhang, Tao Yu, Tatsunori Hashimoto, Mike Lewis, Wen-Tau Yih, Daniel
Fried, and Sida Wang. 2023. Coder Reviewer Reranking for Code Generation. In
ICML, Vol. 202. PMLR, Honolulu, HI, USA, 41832–41846.
[53] Qinkai Zheng, Xiao Xia, Xu Zou, Yuxiao Dong, Shan Wang, Yufei Xue, Lei
Shen, Zihan Wang, Andi Wang, Yang Li, Teng Su, Zhilin Yang, and Jie Tang.
2023. CodeGeeX: A Pre-Trained Model for Code Generation with Multilingual
Benchmarking on HumanEval-X. In KDD. ACM, Long Beach, CA, USA, 5673–
5684.
[54] Li Zhong, Zilong Wang, and Jingbo Shang. 2024. Debug like a Human: A Large
Language Model Debugger via Verifying Runtime Execution Step by Step. In
Findings of ACL. ACL, Bangkok, Thailand, 851–870.
1331